



Network Working Group                                          A. Brezun
Internet-Draft                                        Tools for Humanity
Intended status: Standards Track                           5 August 2026
Expires: 6 February 2027


                       Human Continuity for HTTP
               draft-brezun-human-continuity-http-latest

Abstract

   This document defines an HTTP extension for origins that need to
   attribute repeated participation to the same verified unique human
   within a declared continuity scope, without requiring a global human
   identifier or replacing existing authentication.  Within a continuity
   scope, the same human yields one verifier-local handle across all of
   their accounts, devices, and agents and cannot present as two,
   distinguishing the signal from authentication, which identifies a
   credential a human may hold many of.  An origin server can publish
   policy for client-presented unique-human artifacts, issue an explicit
   challenge, and receive a client-presented artifact on a subsequent
   request.

   The framework is independent of any realm operator, credential
   technology, proof system, or definition of humanness.  Companion
   profiles define artifact syntax, issuance, verification, challenge
   binding, replay behavior, holder binding, privacy properties, realm
   metadata, and verifier output.  A conforming profile produces a
   verifier-local continuity_handle scoped to a realm, attestation
   audience, and purpose.  This version defines no initial profile.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at https://aurel-
   fr.github.io/human-continuity-http/draft-brezun-human-continuity-
   http.html.  Status information for this document may be found at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-brezun-human-continuity-http/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the HTTP Working Group
   mailing list (mailto:ietf-http-wg@w3.org), which is archived at
   https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/ietf-http-wg/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/aurel-fr/human-continuity-http.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 6 February 2027.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
     1.1.  Relationship to Existing Work
       1.1.1.  Relationship to Privacy Pass, ARC, and ACT
       1.1.2.  Relationship to OAuth Protected Resource Metadata
       1.1.3.  Relationship to HTTP Authentication Schemes
       1.1.4.  Relationship to Credential Presentation Protocols
       1.1.5.  Relationship to Web Bot Auth
     1.2.  Applicability and Alternatives
   2.  Conventions and Terminology
   3.  Design Goals
   4.  Non-Goals
   5.  Protocol Overview
   6.  Attestation Audience and Purpose
     6.1.  Canonical HTTPS Origin
     6.2.  Policy Selection
     6.3.  Cross-Origin Delegation and Audience Granularity
     6.4.  Effective Values and Continuity Scope
   7.  HTTP Fields
     7.1.  Common Field Syntax
     7.2.  The Human-Continuity-Challenge Field
     7.3.  The Human-Continuity Field
     7.4.  Common Field Parameters
     7.5.  Presentation Assurance
   8.  Policy Metadata
     8.1.  Origin-Level Metadata
     8.2.  Selectors and Policy Entries
     8.3.  Metadata Members
     8.4.  Authorization by Policy Metadata
     8.5.  Metadata Precedence and Trust
   9.  Realm Metadata
   10. Unique-Human Profiles
     10.1.  Profile Identifiers
     10.2.  Specification Requirements
     10.3.  Human-Continuity Handle Requirements
     10.4.  Privacy Properties
     10.5.  Example Profile Categories
   11. Holder-Bound Presentations
     11.1.  Binding the Artifact to the HTTP Message Signature Key
     11.2.  HTTP Message Signature Requirements
     11.3.  Freshness and Replay Model
       11.3.1.  Profile Contract
       11.3.2.  Challenge Context and Acceptance
       11.3.3.  Replay Keys and Final Acceptance
       11.3.4.  Security Boundary
     11.4.  Request Content Binding
   12. Client Behavior
   13. Verifier Behavior
   14. Caching and Intermediaries
   15. Browser and CORS Considerations
   16. Status Codes and Error Responses
   17. Header Size and Artifact Size
   18. Privacy Considerations
     18.1.  Privacy Threats
     18.2.  Exclusion, Accessibility, and Coercion
   19. Implementation Status
   20. Security Considerations
   21. IANA Considerations
     21.1.  HTTP Field Name Registrations
     21.2.  Well-Known URI Registrations
     21.3.  Human-Continuity Presentation Assurance Value Registry
   22. Examples
     22.1.  Challenge Reuse for a Request-Scoped Policy
     22.2.  Holder-Bound Presentation
     22.3.  Policy Metadata
     22.4.  Realm Metadata
     22.5.  Realm Metadata Without JWKs
     22.6.  Using Verifier Output in Origin Policy
     22.7.  Agent Delegation Binding
   23. References
     23.1.  Normative References
     23.2.  Informative References
   Appendix A.  Illustrative Profile Sketch
   Appendix B.  Open Issues
   Acknowledgements
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   HTTP APIs may benefit from supplemental request signals that are not
   equivalent to authenticating a user account.  One such signal is that
   a request is backed by a verified unique human within a continuity
   scope selected by the verifier.  Origins may use such a signal as an
   input to origin policy decisions, including duplicate account
   prevention, free-tier signup, per-human quotas, API quota grouping,
   Sybil-resistant participation, grant claims, trial credit claims,
   agent delegation, request prioritization, or measurement.

   Authentication and human continuity answer different questions.
   Origin authentication identifies an account, session, API key, mTLS
   identity, or other application principal.  A single human can often
   create or control multiple authenticated accounts, devices, sessions,
   or agents, and a single authenticated account can sometimes be
   accessed by multiple humans or automated systems.

   Human continuity is a supplemental signal.  It allows an origin to
   learn that two presentations, accounts, devices, sessions, or agents
   are backed by the same verified unique human within a declared
   continuity scope, without learning that human's global identity and
   without enabling cross-verifier correlation.

   Two properties set this mechanism apart.  Against authentication, the
   continuity_handle is keyed to a verified unique human, not to a
   credential the subject controls, so within a scope a human has one
   handle and cannot present as two.  Against unlinkable mechanisms such
   as Privacy Pass [RFC9576], it is controlled linkability: the verifier
   intentionally receives a stable verifier-local value within a scope
   rather than an unlinkable fact (Section 1.2).

   A profile that does not produce a verifier-local continuity_handle is
   not a conforming profile under this specification.

   Existing human-continuity integrations are generally origin-specific.
   Each origin defines its own discovery mechanism, challenge format,
   token format, and verification behavior.  This creates fragmented
   client support and makes it difficult for browsers, mobile apps,
   agents, SDKs, API gateways, and other HTTP clients to interoperate.

   This document defines a small HTTP protocol for unique-human
   artifacts:

   *  policy metadata can declare the accepted human-continuity purposes
      and unique-human profiles for request contexts;

   *  an origin can issue an explicit challenge using Human-Continuity-
      Challenge;

   *  a client can present a unique-human artifact using Human-
      Continuity;

   *  a holder-bound profile can bind the artifact to a concrete HTTP
      request using HTTP Message Signatures [RFC9421]; and

   *  origins and clients can discover policy metadata and realm
      metadata using well-known locations [RFC8615].

   The protocol intentionally does not define a single global proof of
   human, identity system, realm governance model, or cryptographic
   proof format.  Those details belong to unique-human profiles.  The
   core protocol requires that a conforming profile provide scoped human
   continuity and defines how origins and clients discover, request, and
   transport those artifacts over HTTP.

   This document does not privilege any realm operator, issuance
   ceremony, biometric system, credential format, or verification
   technology.  Unique-human mechanisms specific to a realm are
   specified as separate unique-human profiles conforming to the
   requirements in Section 10.

   This document is therefore a discovery, challenge, and transport
   substrate, not a complete unique-human system by itself.

1.1.  Relationship to Existing Work

1.1.1.  Relationship to Privacy Pass, ARC, and ACT

   Privacy Pass [RFC9576] provides privacy-preserving token issuance and
   redemption for cases where the origin should learn an unlinkable fact
   rather than a stable continuity value.  Anonymous Rate-Limited
   Credentials (ARC) [I-D.ietf-privacypass-arc-crypto] similarly support
   unlinkable rate limiting, and Anonymous Credit Tokens (ACT)
   [I-D.schlesinger-cfrg-act] unlinkable credit issuance and spending.
   These mechanisms are complementary to this specification: Section 1.2
   defines the boundary between them and scoped human continuity.

1.1.2.  Relationship to OAuth Protected Resource Metadata

   This specification also defines metadata for origin policy discovery,
   but it deliberately uses a different topology from OAuth 2.0
   Protected Resource Metadata [RFC9728].  Human-continuity policy can
   apply across many API paths and methods at one origin, so this
   document uses a single origin-level policy metadata document with
   policy selectors that select policies.

1.1.3.  Relationship to HTTP Authentication Schemes

   An origin uses human continuity as an input to its own policy.
   Native authentication and authorization remain origin-defined.  An
   authentication scheme identifies a credential the subject can hold
   many of, whereas a continuity_handle represents the backing human and
   cannot be forked into a second value within a scope (Section 10.3).

   An HTTP authentication scheme conveys its credential in the
   Authorization request field [RFC9110], which carries a single
   credential.  A presentation defined as an authentication scheme
   therefore could not accompany an origin's native authentication on
   the same request; the PrivateToken scheme of the Privacy Pass HTTP
   authentication scheme [RFC9577], which redeems tokens in
   Authorization, is one such design.  Presentations are commonly sent
   together with native authentication: the holder-bound example in
   Section 22.2 carries Human-Continuity alongside Authorization:
   Bearer.  This specification carries presentations in dedicated fields
   rather than defining or extending an authentication scheme, and does
   not use status 401 or 407 (Section 16).

1.1.4.  Relationship to Credential Presentation Protocols

   OpenID for Verifiable Presentations [OpenID4VP] and the W3C Digital
   Credentials API [DC-API] define how a verifier requests and obtains a
   credential presentation from a holder's wallet.  This document adds
   origin-discoverable policy, challenges, and a scope-local
   continuity_handle that an origin can use to link valid presentations
   backed by the same verified human; each verified human has at most
   one handle in the scope (Section 10.3).  BBS pseudonyms
   [I-D.irtf-cfrg-bbs-per-verifier-linkability] provide a stable per-
   verifier value from one credential and holder-held secrets, but leave
   one-per-human uniqueness at issuance, continuity after loss of those
   secrets, and HTTP policy discovery out of scope.  Section 1.2 defines
   when a presentation alone suffices.

   These protocols can provide artifact acquisition paths rather than
   alternatives to this document.  A unique-human profile can, for
   example, define a credential format carried in an OpenID4VP
   presentation.  The Digital Credentials API is mediated by the user
   agent and supports a fixed set of exchange protocols, so a profile
   using it also needs an invocation path for clients outside a browser.

   Version 0.2.0 of x401 [X401] gates a route on a verifier-composed,
   nonce-bearing proof request.  The client obtains a credential
   presentation by executing the embedded Digital Credentials API
   request in a user agent or relaying it to another credential manager.
   The verifier can mint a short-lived, verifier-scoped bearer token
   recording its decision.  That token expires; a continuity_handle
   instead identifies the same verified human across presentations,
   clients, and transports.

1.1.5.  Relationship to Web Bot Auth

   Web Bot Auth [I-D.meunier-webbotauth-httpsig-protocol] authenticates
   the automated agent behind an HTTP request, using an HTTP Message
   Signature [RFC9421] with the web-bot-auth tag and signing keys
   discovered through an HTTP Message Signatures Directory
   [I-D.meunier-webbotauth-httpsig-directory].  The two mechanisms are
   complementary: Web Bot Auth identifies the agent, and Human
   Continuity links those requests to the unique human on whose behalf
   it acts.

   The two compose on the same agent request as independent HTTP Message
   Signatures, each carrying its own tag: a web-bot-auth signature and a
   holder-bound human-continuity signature can coexist, and a verifier
   selects the human-continuity signature by its tag (Section 11.2,
   Section 7.2.7 of [RFC9421]).

1.2.  Applicability and Alternatives

   This specification is intended for origins that require verifier-
   local human continuity within a declared continuity scope.  A
   successful presentation intentionally allows the verifier to
   determine that repeated presentations within the same (realm,
   attestation audience, purpose) tuple are backed by the same verified
   unique human, without requiring a global human identifier.

   Origins SHOULD NOT request Human-Continuity when an unlinkable
   authorization, redemption, rate-limit, or credit-spend mechanism is
   sufficient.

   The boundary between this specification and unlinkable mechanisms
   turns on where policy state lives and when policy is applied.
   Unlinkable capability systems fix a spendable allowance at issuance
   and decide each redemption against the artifact rather than the
   human.  Privacy Pass [RFC9576], the Privacy Pass HTTP authentication
   scheme [RFC9577], ARC [I-D.ietf-privacypass-arc-crypto], and ACT
   [I-D.schlesinger-cfrg-act] issue tokens, bounded-use credentials, or
   credits.  At redemption time, the verifier asks only whether the
   bearer presents a still-valid, not-yet-exhausted capability: that the
   client is authorized to proceed, has satisfied an issuance
   precondition such as solving a CAPTCHA, holds a spendable token or
   credit, has not double-spent it, or is within an anonymous rate
   limit.

   Human-Continuity instead allows policy to bind at decision time.  The
   verifier can use mutable per-human state keyed by the resulting
   continuity_handle to recognize that a presentation is backed by the
   same verified unique human as an earlier presentation in the same
   declared continuity scope.  That recognition is needed when a per-
   human rule may be applied, audited, or revised after artifacts are
   already in use.  An unlinkable mechanism cannot express such a rule
   because it cannot distinguish repeated use by one human from use by
   several.  Examples include duplicate account prevention, per-human
   quota grouping across accounts or sessions, Sybil-resistant
   participation, recovery-sensitive account workflows, grant or trial
   credit claims that require human continuity, and agent delegation
   policies that group activity by the backing human.  For use cases
   involving allocation or abuse control, a scoped continuity_handle
   does not eliminate abuse; it changes the attacker's bottleneck from
   creating accounts to obtaining access to distinct verified humans.

   Unlinkable token, credential, and credit systems often require the
   client to retain token, credential, presentation, balance, refund, or
   other protocol state.  Such systems can be appropriate for short-
   lived or single-device use cases, such as solving a CAPTCHA and
   redeeming a small number of tokens.  They can be less suitable when
   the origin requires long-lived continuity, multi-device use, or
   recovery after loss of client state.  Those requirements are a
   primary motivation for verifier-local human continuity, but they also
   increase privacy risk and therefore require narrow continuity scopes.

   A credential presentation alone shows that the subject holds a
   qualifying credential at presentation time.  If that check suffices,
   a presentation protocol without this document is preferable.

   A client-stored linkable value, such as a long-lived cookie or bearer
   token, can also give a verifier a stable per-client value, but it
   derives its continuity from the client retaining and replaying one
   secret.  A client can hold several such values to present as several
   distinct continuities, and losing the value loses the continuity.  A
   continuity_handle instead derives from the verification of a unique
   human under a realm and is computed verifier-locally: within a scope
   a human has at most one, regardless of how many clients, accounts, or
   credentials they control, cannot obtain a second, and recovers the
   same value after loss of client state.

2.  Conventions and Terminology

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   [BCP14] (RFC2119) (RFC8174) when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   The two HTTP fields defined by this document use Structured Field
   Values [RFC9651].  This document does not define separate ABNF for
   their field values.  The field values are parsed according to
   [RFC9651], and this document adds semantic constraints on the parsed
   items and parameters.

   HTTP field names are case-insensitive [RFC9110].  Examples in this
   document use conventional capitalization.  When an HTTP field is
   covered by an HTTP Message Signature, the component identifier and
   canonicalization rules are those defined by [RFC9421].

   Long example lines that end with backslash use the single backslash
   line-wrapping convention from [RFC8792] and are to be unfolded before
   interpreting the example.

   This specification uses two related terms deliberately, on two axes.
   A unique-human profile defines how a subject is established to be a
   verified unique human under a realm, and defines how the
   continuity_handle is derived.  The Human-Continuity HTTP layer
   transports presentations that, when valid, yield a verifier-local
   continuity_handle.  The two axes meet in the continuity scope: the
   unique-human profile establishes that the subject is a unique human,
   the continuity scope is where the resulting continuity holds, and the
   continuity_handle is comparable within it.  The first valid
   presentation in a scope establishes the scoped comparison value;
   later valid presentations producing the same value are backed by the
   same verified unique human.

   Origin: The HTTP origin server that publishes policy for, challenges
   for, receives, and verifies human-continuity presentations.

   Client: An HTTP client, browser component, mobile app, agent tool,
   SDK, command-line tool, service, or other requester that can obtain
   or present a unique-human artifact.

   Realm: A URI [RFC3986] identifying a human-continuity namespace.
   Within a realm, a conforming profile maps the same verified human to
   the same continuity_handle for a given attestation audience and
   purpose; different realms are distinct handle namespaces.  A human-
   continuity realm is unrelated to the realm authentication parameter
   of HTTP authentication schemes ([RFC9110]).

   Realm operator: The entity responsible for a realm.  The realm
   operator publishes the realm's metadata and the verification
   material, if any, that a verifier uses to validate artifacts, and
   establishes the conditions under which artifacts are produced.  For
   example, it can sign a context that is bound to the attestation
   audience and purpose and used for a proof request.  In profiles where
   the realm operator generates the artifact directly, it can instead
   sign the artifact itself.  A realm operator is not required to
   custody the subject's identity secret; in profiles that separate
   these roles, a user-controlled component defined by the profile holds
   the secret and produces the artifact locally.

   Unique-human artifact: A cryptographic object presented by the client
   and verified by the origin according to a unique-human profile.  A
   valid artifact proves that the subject is a verified unique human and
   produces a continuity_handle for the selected continuity scope.  This
   document does not define the cryptographic format of the artifact.

   Unique-human profile: A named specification that defines artifact
   syntax, issuance, verification, realm metadata, privacy properties,
   holder binding, challenge nonce binding, replay behavior, revocation
   behavior, continuity_handle derivation, and verifier output.  This
   document also uses "profile" for this term.

   Profile identifier: A case-sensitive ASCII string that identifies a
   unique-human profile.  It is carried as the positional String value
   of a Human-Continuity-Challenge list member, or as the Human-
   Continuity item value.  Its syntax and naming rules are defined in
   Section 10.1.

   Attestation audience: The origin to which a unique-human artifact is
   bound and within which the resulting continuity_handle is
   interpreted.  In this version, unless a future cross-origin
   delegation extension allows otherwise, the attestation audience is
   the canonical HTTPS origin of the request.

   Purpose: A string defined by origin policy that identifies the
   context in which human continuity is requested or accepted.  This
   document uses "concrete purpose" when contrasting a purpose with the
   purpose templates in policy metadata (Section 8.3).

   Purpose template: The name of a purpose entry that authorizes a
   family of concrete purposes by prefix, defined in Section 8.3.  A
   purpose template is not part of the continuity scope; the concrete
   purpose carried in Human-Continuity-Challenge or Human-Continuity is.

   Continuity scope: The tuple under which the same verified human is
   expected to produce the same continuity_handle.  The continuity scope
   is the tuple (realm, attestation audience, purpose).

   continuity_handle: The profile-defined continuity value included in
   verifier output.  Within a continuity scope, repeated valid
   presentations by the same verified human produce the same
   continuity_handle.

   Policy identifier: An origin-local token that names a policy
   definition in policy metadata.  A policy identifier is selected for a
   request path and method.

   Policy selector: A policy metadata mapping that maps request path
   patterns for one HTTP method to policy identifiers.

   Challenge nonce: A verifier-generated value carried in the challenge
   parameter of Human-Continuity-Challenge (Section 7.4) and bound by
   the selected profile according to Section 11.3.  A challenge nonce is
   distinct from the nonce signature parameter defined by [RFC9421].

   Subject: The verified human that an artifact attests as unique; the
   human claimed to be a unique human.

   Holder: The party that controls the use of an artifact in
   presentations.  The holder can be the subject, or a client or agent
   acting for a human.

   Holder key: A client-controlled signing key bound to an artifact by a
   holder-bound profile.

   Presentation: The act of attaching a unique-human artifact to an HTTP
   request.

   Holder-bound presentation: A presentation in which the client proves
   possession of a holder key by attaching an HTTP Message Signature
   over selected HTTP message components.

   Verifier: The origin-side component that parses and validates a
   human-continuity presentation and emits verifier output to origin
   policy.

   Verifier output: A structured local result produced by the verifier.
   Section 13 defines its states and required contents.

3.  Design Goals

   The protocol has the following design goals:

   *  Scoped human continuity.  The protocol provides verifier-local
      continuity across repeat presentations by the same verified human,
      exposed as a continuity_handle that is meaningful only within a
      declared continuity scope.

   *  Realm and artifact neutrality.  The HTTP exchange is independent
      of any particular realm operator, credential, zero-knowledge proof
      system, token format, or vendor.

   *  Voluntary client participation.  Clients can ignore policy
      metadata and challenges, and origins can define behavior for
      requests that omit human-continuity presentations.

   *  Verifier-local operation.  The design favors profiles that can be
      verified locally by the origin, without requiring a call to the
      realm operator on the request path.

   *  Artifact theft resistance.  The design favors holder binding for
      reusable artifacts so that artifact disclosure alone is
      insufficient for presentation.

   *  Deterministic method and policy selection and authorization, with
      precise audience and purpose binding.  Clients need deterministic
      selection of the policy identifier, attestation audience, purpose,
      and continuity scope to avoid origin confusion, method confusion,
      purpose broadening, and cross-origin realm injection.

   *  Operation through ordinary HTTP infrastructure.  The protocol
      should work with API gateways, CDNs, reverse proxies, browser
      CORS, mobile clients, agents, and SDKs, subject to the caching and
      header size considerations described in this document.

4.  Non-Goals

   This document does not define:

   *  what makes a user human, how humanness is determined, or a single
      proof-of-human ceremony;

   *  a global human identity system or a global realm governance model;

   *  a cryptographic artifact format or a mandatory profile;

   *  device integrity, workload attestation, or generic remote
      attestation [RFC9334];

   *  cross-origin policy or attestation audience delegation;

   *  a browser- or operating-system-transparent attachment mechanism;

   *  a guarantee that requests backed by human continuity receive
      different service treatment.

5.  Protocol Overview

   Client                    Origin             Realm operator
     |                         |                         |
     | metadata request        |                         |
     |------------------------>|                         |
     | policy metadata         |                         |
     |<------------------------|                         |
     | ordinary request        |                         |
     |------------------------>|                         |
     | challenge               |                         |
     |<------------------------|                         |
     | issuance ceremony       |                         |
     |-------------------------------------------------->|
     | unique-human artifact   |                         |
     |<--------------------------------------------------|
     | send Human-Continuity   |                         |
     | optional HTTP signature |                         |
     |------------------------>|                         |
     |                         | local verification      |
     |                         | origin policy           |

   Human-Continuity-Challenge is the only response field defined by this
   specification that requests a human-continuity presentation.

   An origin MAY send Human-Continuity-Challenge on any response to ask
   the client to obtain or present an artifact.  A challenge carries a
   challenge nonce and has specific cache and replay semantics.

   A client that chooses to present an artifact sends Human-Continuity
   on a subsequent request.  If the selected profile is holder-bound,
   the client also sends an HTTP Message Signature using Signature-Input
   and Signature as defined by [RFC9421].

   This protocol does not define OPTIONS as a general negotiation step.
   For a protected GET request, the origin can send Human-Continuity-
   Challenge on the GET response, and the client can retry the same GET
   with Human-Continuity.  Cross-origin browser requests can involve
   CORS preflight for the actual request fields and methods, but that
   preflight is not a human-continuity challenge exchange.

   In typical exchanges, the client validates metadata and any challenge
   against policy metadata and realm metadata before issuance or
   presentation.  The diagram shows policy metadata as a separate fetch
   that can happen before, during, or after the request being evaluated,
   depending on cache state.  It omits realm metadata fetches for
   readability.

   The origin verifies the presentation according to the selected
   profile.  A successful verification result for a conforming profile
   includes a verifier-local continuity_handle scoped by realm,
   attestation audience, and purpose.  This document does not define the
   origin's final policy decision.

6.  Attestation Audience and Purpose

   A unique-human artifact is meaningful only for the attestation
   audience and purpose for which it was issued or derived.  Clients and
   origins therefore need deterministic policy identifier, attestation
   audience, purpose, and continuity scope rules.

6.1.  Canonical HTTPS Origin

   The attestation audience for a request is the canonical HTTPS origin
   of that request.

   To determine the canonical HTTPS origin, determine the target URI's
   origin as defined by [RFC9110], Section 4.3.1, requiring the scheme
   to be "https", and serialize that origin using the ASCII
   serialization of an origin defined by [RFC6454], Section 6.2.
   Clients and verifiers MUST compare canonical HTTPS origins by exact
   string equality after this serialization.

   Therefore, the following inputs have the same canonical HTTPS origin:

   https://api.example.com
   https://api.example.com/
   https://api.example.com:443/

   and the canonical HTTPS origin is:

   https://api.example.com

   Profiles MAY reject IP-literal attestation audiences.

6.2.  Policy Selection

   The effective policy identifier for a request is derived from the
   request method, request URI, and valid policy metadata.

   Policy identifiers are origin-local names, such as quota, recovery,
   or graphql.  An origin can make a policy the default for requests not
   matched by a policy selector for the request method by publishing a
   default policy selector that maps the request method to that policy
   identifier.

   Configured policy metadata is configured metadata (Section 8.5)
   provisioned for the request's canonical HTTPS origin.

   To determine the effective policy identifier for a request:

   1.  Compute the canonical HTTPS origin of the request according to
       Section 6.1.

   2.  Fetch policy metadata for that canonical HTTPS origin from the
       URL formed by appending /.well-known/human-continuity to the
       canonical HTTPS origin, use valid cached policy metadata from
       that location, or use valid configured policy metadata for that
       canonical HTTPS origin:

      https://service.example/.well-known/human-continuity

       The metadata document's origin member MUST exactly equal the
       canonical HTTPS origin of the request.

       If no valid configured policy metadata is used, absence of
       fetched policy metadata is established only when the response of
       the origin-level policy metadata fetch has status code 404 or
       410.  In that case, the origin has no metadata-derived human-
       continuity policy.  A client MUST NOT obtain or present, and a
       verifier MUST NOT accept, a unique-human artifact for that
       request under this protocol.

   3.  Let request-method be the HTTP method of the request.

       A method selector matches only by exact HTTP method token
       equality.  Method tokens are case-sensitive.  The special
       relationship between GET and HEAD, if any, is not inferred by
       this protocol; origins that want the same policy for GET and HEAD
       MUST list both methods.

   4.  Let request-path be the path component of the request URI,
       excluding any query component.  If the request URI has an empty
       path, request-path is "/".

   5.  A request path containing dot-segments, as defined by [RFC3986],
       Section 3.3, MUST NOT match any policy selector or default policy
       selector under this protocol.  No policy identifier is selected
       for inline human-continuity fields or presentations, and the
       selection algorithm stops.  Clients and verifiers MUST NOT accept
       Human-Continuity-Challenge or Human-Continuity for such a request
       unless a future extension defines safe normalization semantics.

   6.  Look up request-method in policy_selectors.  If policy_selectors
       contains a member name equal to request-method, the method's
       policy selector map is the value of that member.  Otherwise,
       request-method has no policy_selectors entry.

       If request-method has a policy_selectors entry and the method's
       policy selector map contains a non-wildcard member name that is
       exactly equal to request-path, the effective policy identifier is
       that member's value and the selection algorithm stops.

       Otherwise, if request-method has a policy_selectors entry, build
       the set of matching subtree pattern candidates from the method's
       policy selector map.  If request-method has no policy_selectors
       entry, no subtree pattern candidate exists from policy_selectors
       for that method.  Each candidate is a tuple of (matched
       path_pattern, policy identifier, specificity).

       For a subtree pattern ending in "/**", let base be the pattern
       with the final "**" removed.  The base MUST NOT be "/".  The
       pattern matches request-path if request-path begins with base.

       An origin that wants both a base path and its descendants to
       select the same policy identifier lists both patterns, such as
       "/account" and "/account/**".

       For example, "/account/**" matches "/account/" and "/account/
       settings", but does not match "/account" or "/accounting".

   7.  If one or more subtree pattern candidates exist, the effective
       policy identifier is the policy identifier selected by the
       candidate with the highest path specificity, and the selection
       algorithm stops.  For a subtree pattern, specificity is the
       length of the prefix before "/**".

   8.  If no subtree pattern candidate exists, look up request-method in
       default_policy_selectors.  If default_policy_selectors contains a
       member name equal to request-method and request-path does not
       begin with "/.well-known/", the effective policy identifier is
       that member's value.

       Otherwise, no policy identifier is selected for inline human-
       continuity fields or presentations.  The client and verifier MUST
       NOT accept Human-Continuity-Challenge or Human-Continuity based
       on policy metadata for that request.  The "/.well-known/"
       exclusion mirrors the prohibition on "/.well-known/" path
       patterns in policy selectors.

   Policy selector matching is method-first.  A policy selector listed
   under one method does not shadow a less-specific policy selector or
   default policy selector for another method.  For example, if metadata
   contains a GET selector for "/account/**" and a POST selector for
   "/account/recovery/**", then GET /account/recovery/123 selects the
   less-specific GET selector for "/account/**".

   Policy selection is performed before evaluating profile, effective
   realm, effective attestation audience, purpose, or presentation-
   assurance constraints.  After a policy identifier has been selected
   for the request method by a policy selector or default policy
   selector, a client or verifier MUST NOT fall back to a less-specific
   or default policy identifier merely because the selected policy does
   not authorize the inline values.

6.3.  Cross-Origin Delegation and Audience Granularity

   Cross-origin delegated attestation audiences are out of scope for
   this document.

   An origin MUST NOT cause a client to obtain or present an artifact
   for a different origin's attestation audience.  Cross-origin
   delegation requires a future extension that defines delegation
   metadata, authority checks, downgrade protections, and realm trust
   rules.

   Attestation audiences narrower than the canonical HTTPS origin, such
   as path-scoped same-origin resource identifiers, are likewise not
   defined by this version.  A future extension can introduce narrower
   audiences as an optional policy metadata member without changing the
   HTTP fields defined by this document.

6.4.  Effective Values and Continuity Scope

   For each challenge or presentation, the client and verifier determine
   the following values:

   For Human-Continuity-Challenge, the request used for policy selection
   is the request that generated the response containing the field.  For
   Human-Continuity, the request used for policy selection is the
   request carrying the field.

   request method: For Human-Continuity-Challenge, the request method is
   the method of the request that generated the response containing the
   field.  For Human-Continuity, the request method is the method of the
   request carrying the field.

   effective policy identifier: The policy identifier selected for the
   request by Section 6.2.

   effective realm: The realm selected for the request by the selected
   purpose entry in policy metadata.

   effective attestation audience: The canonical HTTPS origin of the
   request (Section 6.1).

   purpose: The concrete purpose carried in the purpose field parameter
   (Section 7.4) and authorized by policy metadata.

   selected purpose entry: The purpose entry (Section 8.3) selected for
   the concrete purpose under the effective policy identifier.

   selected presentation-assurance value: The presentation-assurance
   value requested by Human-Continuity-Challenge or asserted by Human-
   Continuity, if present.  If the field has no presentation-assurance
   parameter, no presentation-assurance value is selected.

   continuity scope: The tuple (effective realm, effective attestation
   audience, purpose) used to derive and interpret the
   continuity_handle.

   The prefix "effective" marks a value determined per request by this
   section.  The purpose carries no prefix because it is carried
   verbatim in the purpose field parameter and validated against policy
   metadata rather than derived.

   Separating request method and policy identifier from realm,
   attestation audience, and purpose allows different HTTP request
   contexts to publish different profile choices or presentation-
   assurance requirements while sharing one continuity scope when policy
   selects the same effective realm and the fields select the same
   purpose.  It also allows single-endpoint APIs, such as GraphQL or RPC
   over POST, to select one HTTP policy identifier while different
   application operations select different purposes, realms, profiles,
   or assurance requirements.

   The purpose value has no default.  Each Human-Continuity-Challenge
   list member and Human-Continuity item MUST include a concrete
   purpose.  The purpose value MUST be authorized by the selected policy
   through a purpose entry for the selected profile.  Purpose
   authorization is privacy-sensitive because it defines the verifier's
   linkability sets.  The purposes and purpose templates listed in
   metadata make those linkability sets visible, making policy easier to
   audit, while avoiding an unbounded namespace of arbitrary challenge-
   selected purposes.

   The values are determined as follows:

   1.  Determine the request method and effective policy identifier from
       the request according to Section 6.2.

   2.  Select the purpose entry from the selected policy definition's
       purposes map.

       If the selected policy definition's purposes map contains an
       entry name exactly equal to the concrete purpose, that purpose
       entry is selected.  A purpose template is never exactly equal to
       a concrete purpose, because concrete purpose values cannot
       contain { or }. Within the selected policy definition, an exactly
       matching entry name takes precedence over any purpose template
       that would also match the concrete purpose.  Such a purpose
       template is not considered to authorize that concrete purpose for
       that selected policy.

       Otherwise, if exactly one purpose template in the selected policy
       definition's purposes map matches the concrete purpose, that
       purpose entry is selected.  If no purpose template matches, the
       concrete purpose is not authorized.  If a purpose entry is
       selected but its profiles object does not authorize the selected
       profile or the selected presentation-assurance value, or its
       realm does not match the value required for the artifact or
       presentation, the client and verifier MUST NOT fall back to
       another purpose entry.

   3.  Determine the effective realm from the realm of the selected
       purpose entry.

   4.  The effective attestation audience is the canonical HTTPS origin
       of the request (Section 6.1).

   5.  The continuity scope is (effective realm, effective attestation
       audience, purpose).  Profiles MAY use profile-specific
       cryptographic inputs when validating or generating artifacts, but
       those inputs MUST NOT change the verifier-visible continuity
       scope or the continuity_handle produced for the same effective
       realm, effective attestation audience, purpose, and verified
       human.

   Changing the effective realm changes the continuity scope.  A
   conforming profile produces continuity_handle values for the new
   scope that are not correlatable with values from the previous scope.
   Continuity across a change of realm operator therefore requires
   keeping the realm stable so that the continuity scope does not
   change; key and infrastructure changes under a stable realm follow
   the profile's defined behavior for rotating realm operator trust
   material.

   Origins SHOULD choose purpose values that are stable for the
   continuity set in which repeated participation by the same human is
   intended to be detected.  The origin is responsible for ensuring that
   emitted purpose values correspond to the intended continuity set: a
   purpose value that is too broad increases linkability, and a purpose
   value that is too narrow can prevent human continuity.  Origins
   SHOULD NOT include per-request randomness, challenge nonces, session
   identifiers, one-time transaction identifiers, or other values that
   make each presentation use a unique purpose, unless the origin
   intentionally does not need human continuity across those
   presentations.  When per-request unlinkability is desired, Human-
   Continuity is the wrong mechanism; origins need an unlinkable
   redemption mechanism instead (Section 1.2).

   Origins MAY use bounded scopes, such as time-windowed or event-
   specific purpose values, when the origin requires human continuity
   only within that bounded context.  For example,
   "api_quota:2026-06-04", "promo:summer-sale", or "trial_credit_claim"
   can define narrower continuity contexts than a broad account- or
   origin-wide purpose.  Each such purpose value MUST be authorized in
   policy metadata, as a listed purpose or through a purpose template.
   Origins using bounded purpose values SHOULD document the continuity
   boundary, including how purpose values are formed and how long each
   scope is intended to last.

   Before obtaining or presenting an artifact, a client MUST verify that
   the challenge or presentation is authorized by policy metadata
   (Section 8.4).

   Unless a future cross-origin delegation extension allows otherwise:

   *  the effective policy identifier MUST match a policy definition
      selected for the request by policy metadata; and

   *  the effective attestation audience MUST be the canonical HTTPS
      origin of the request.

   Clients MUST ignore any challenge whose purpose value is absent or
   syntactically invalid or that is not authorized by policy metadata
   (Section 8.4).

   Verifiers MUST NOT treat presentations as valid unless the
   presentation is authorized by policy metadata (Section 8.4), the
   purpose value is present and syntactically valid, the purpose value
   is accepted by origin policy for the request, and the artifact is
   bound to that purpose according to the selected profile.

   Examples:

   The examples below show the exchange first, then the policy metadata
   checked to derive the effective values.  The abbreviated metadata is
   complete for the shown request method and path, with unrelated non-
   matching entries omitted.  Example artifact values are illustrative
   placeholders: a real artifact is bound to one effective realm,
   effective attestation audience, and purpose, and the same artifact
   bytes would not be valid across the different continuity scopes shown
   in this document's examples.  Additional end-to-end flows against a
   consolidated policy metadata document are shown in Section 22.

   Example 1: default policy selector with origin-scoped policy

   For a GET request to:

   https://service.example/accounts/free-tier

   HTTP field in the response:

   NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792

   Human-Continuity-Challenge: "com.example.unique-human.v1"; \
     purpose="site_rate_limit"; \
     challenge=:rcccO4BcyTMPkx0CQ9PAXk3YyoM5fw5+ycNeGGVZTlk=:

   Relevant policy metadata:

   {
     "origin": "https://service.example",
     "default_policy_selectors": {
       "GET": "site",
       "HEAD": "site"
     },
     "policy_selectors": {},
     "policies": {
       "site": {
         "purposes": {
           "site_rate_limit": {
             "realm": "https://realm.example",
             "profiles": {
               "com.example.unique-human.v1": {}
             }
           }
         }
       }
     }
   }

   Effective policy identifier:

   site

   Effective realm:

   https://realm.example

   Effective attestation audience:

   https://service.example

   Purpose:

   site_rate_limit

   Continuity scope:

   (https://realm.example, https://service.example, site_rate_limit)

   No policy selector is found for GET /accounts/free-tier, so the GET
   default policy selector selects the site policy.  The effective
   attestation audience is the canonical HTTPS origin of the request.

   Example 2: purpose template for a single-endpoint API

   For a POST request to:

   https://api.example.com/graphql

   HTTP field in the response:

   NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792

   Human-Continuity-Challenge: "com.example.unique-human.v1"; \
     purpose="promo:summer-sale"; \
     challenge=:oxbD0b5k8UfuppijrLSxroRhXys8WmzucB95TXadeHs=:; \
     presentation-assurance="subject-present"

   Relevant policy metadata:

   {
     "origin": "https://api.example.com",
     "default_policy_selectors": {},
     "policy_selectors": {
       "POST": {
         "/graphql": "graphql"
       }
     },
     "policies": {
       "graphql": {
         "purposes": {
           "promo:loyalty": {
             "realm": "https://realm.example",
             "profiles": {
               "com.example.unique-human.v1": {
                 "presentation_assurances": ["human-verified"]
               }
             }
           },
           "promo:{campaign}": {
             "realm": "https://realm.example",
             "profiles": {
               "com.example.unique-human.v1": {
                 "presentation_assurances": ["subject-present"]
               }
             }
           }
         }
       }
     }
   }

   The POST /graphql request selects the GraphQL policy.  The concrete
   purpose "promo:summer-sale" does not equal any purpose listed under
   the policy, so the "promo:{campaign}" purpose template authorizes it
   and selects the realm, profile entry, and presentation-assurance
   value.  For the concrete purpose "promo:loyalty", the exactly
   matching purpose takes precedence even though the purpose template
   also matches it: its purpose entry applies, including its "human-
   verified" presentation-assurance value, with no fallback to the
   purpose template's purpose entry.  The concrete purpose, not the
   purpose template, is part of the continuity scope.  A purpose
   template authorizes concrete purpose values; the concrete purpose
   itself is always carried in the challenge.

   Selected presentation-assurance value:

   subject-present

   Continuity scope:

   NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792

   (https://realm.example, https://api.example.com, \
     promo:summer-sale)

   When the client retries an operation-specific request with content,
   it includes request content coverage in the HTTP Message Signature:

   NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792

   POST /graphql HTTP/1.1
   Host: api.example.com
   Content-Type: application/json
   Content-Digest: sha-256=:J7PDCuRys5571B0uq8VctIJxawOGKDI\
     DolzxGhJyAWA=:
   Human-Continuity: "com.example.unique-human.v1"; \
     artifact=:ZXhhbXBsZS1hcnRpZmFjdA==:; \
     purpose="promo:summer-sale"; \
     presentation-assurance="subject-present"
   Signature-Input: hu=("@method" "@target-uri" \
     "human-continuity";sf "content-digest");created=1778480000;\
     expires=1778480060;\
     keyid="urn:ietf:params:oauth:jwk-thumbprint:sha-256:1IG2tMH7J2wbJZ\
     nOf8LJzQitKf7LMvoAElsuDMVM54Y";alg="ed25519";tag="human-continuity"
   Signature: hu=:bidcWjspV0fNiGmSb4/Gz1YNNOovQ6x1vykhJqOlMOGEpMw89IZz\
     jfjoqa7ZnhGzRGFph9xJhfy6G2aOlZkdDA==:

   {
     "operationName": "Claim",
     "variables": {"c": "summer-sale"},
     "query": "mutation Claim($c: ID!) { claim(campaign: $c) { ok } }"
   }

7.  HTTP Fields

7.1.  Common Field Syntax

   Human-Continuity-Challenge is a Structured Field List as defined by
   [RFC9651].

   Human-Continuity is a Structured Field Item as defined by [RFC9651].

   These fields are specific to human-continuity presentations.  A
   conforming presentation produces a verifier-local continuity_handle
   scoped by realm, attestation audience, and purpose.

   Each Human-Continuity-Challenge list member value and the Human-
   Continuity item value MUST be an sf-string.  The string is the
   profile identifier.

   Example:

   NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792

   Human-Continuity-Challenge: "com.example.unique-human.v1"; \
     purpose="free_tier_signup"; \
     challenge=:MB0QuNph5ynfuWXZOJTIzTUIHQ9+puFvDSseCAUBY0s=:

   A client that cannot parse a Human-Continuity-Challenge field value
   as a Structured Field List MUST ignore that field value.  A client
   MUST ignore a Human-Continuity-Challenge list member whose member
   value is not an sf-string.  A client that does not support the
   indicated profile MUST ignore the Human-Continuity-Challenge list
   member.

   A verifier MUST treat Human-Continuity as invalid if the field cannot
   be parsed as a Structured Field Item or its item value is not an sf-
   string.  If the indicated profile is unsupported, Human-Continuity is
   unverifiable.

   Parameters defined by this document are listed in Section 7.4.  A
   client or verifier MUST ignore a parameter defined by this document
   on a field for which it is not defined.  Other parameters are
   profile-specific.  A client or verifier MUST ignore a profile-
   specific parameter unless it supports the selected profile and that
   profile defines the parameter.  If the profile requires processing of
   a defined parameter and the client or verifier cannot process it, it
   MUST reject the affected challenge or presentation.

7.2.  The Human-Continuity-Challenge Field

   The Human-Continuity-Challenge response field explicitly requests a
   human-continuity presentation.

   Field value type: Structured Field List

   Member value: sf-string profile identifier

   Human-Continuity-Challenge carries a challenge nonce intended for
   subsequent presentations.  A challenge nonce is valid for a verifier-
   defined interval (Section 11.3).  Under window acceptance, the
   challenge layer allows multiple presentations bound to the nonce on
   requests matching the challenge context, but artifact and
   presentation reuse remain subject to the selected profile's replay
   model.  Under single-use acceptance, the verifier accepts at most one
   presentation for the nonce in that challenge context.  A challenge
   does not change what policy metadata authorizes (Section 8.5).

   This specification does not define a client-visible challenge
   lifetime.  A client that presents an artifact bound to an expired or
   otherwise stale challenge nonce can receive a new Human-Continuity-
   Challenge and retry according to origin policy.

   A challenge MAY appear on any response status code.  However, origins
   MUST NOT use 401 solely to request human continuity, and proxies MUST
   NOT use 407 for this mechanism, as described in Section 16.  The
   protocol does not depend on a particular error status.

   An origin requiring a presentation to complete a non-idempotent
   operation MUST issue the challenge before applying any effects of
   that operation.

   The members of a Human-Continuity-Challenge list are alternatives;
   their order is not significant.  A client that responds to the
   challenge selects one member that it supports and that policy
   metadata authorizes, and sends the presentation for that member.  A
   verifier that issues a distinct challenge nonce for each member keeps
   the alternatives independent under the challenge nonce scoping rules
   of Section 11.3.

   A Human-Continuity-Challenge list member MUST include the purpose
   parameter.  The purpose value MUST be authorized by a purpose entry
   under the selected policy for the selected profile and request
   method.  A client MUST ignore a challenge that is not authorized by
   policy metadata (Section 8.4).

   An origin MAY challenge for any purpose and profile authorized by
   policy metadata.

   A Human-Continuity-Challenge list member MUST include the challenge
   parameter.  A client MUST ignore a Human-Continuity-Challenge list
   member whose challenge parameter is absent, cannot be parsed as a
   Byte Sequence, or is not exactly 32 octets (Section 7.4).  The
   subsequent presentation MUST bind the challenge nonce as defined in
   Section 11.3.  This binding lets a verifier confirm that the profile-
   defined issuance or presentation process used the nonce as a
   freshness input and, when replay protection applies, as a replay key
   input.

   Example:

   NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792

   HTTP/1.1 409 Conflict
   Content-Type: application/problem+json
   Cache-Control: no-store
   Human-Continuity-Challenge: "com.example.unique-human.v1"; \
     purpose="free_tier_signup"; \
     challenge=:GqkwBKxFEl3zqUyLTmCNstth8qRN4KANvfufDSJ97fc=:; \
     presentation-assurance="subject-present"

7.3.  The Human-Continuity Field

   The Human-Continuity request field carries one human-continuity
   presentation.

   Field value type: Structured Field Item

   Item value: sf-string profile identifier

   The item value identifies the selected unique-human profile.  The
   item parameters carry the artifact material, purpose, and any
   profile-defined presentation parameters.

   A Human-Continuity item MUST include the artifact and purpose
   parameters.

   A Human-Continuity field represents the client's selected
   presentation for the request.  A client MUST NOT generate more than
   one Human-Continuity field line for a request.  This version does not
   define composition of multiple human-continuity presentations in one
   request.

   A verifier MUST parse the Human-Continuity field value as a
   Structured Field Item.  If the field value cannot be parsed as an
   Item, the Human-Continuity signal is invalid.  A comma-separated
   combined field value is therefore invalid.

   Example:

   NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792

   Human-Continuity: "com.example.unique-human.v1"; \
     artifact=:ZXhhbXBsZS1hcnRpZmFjdA==:; \
     purpose="free_tier_signup"

   A client MUST NOT present an artifact bound to a realm, attestation
   audience, or purpose other than the effective realm, effective
   attestation audience, and purpose for which the artifact is valid.  A
   verifier MUST validate the artifact according to its profile before
   using it for policy.

   The artifact is one parameter inside the presentation item; holder-
   bound request signing covers the human-continuity Structured Field
   component, not the artifact bytes alone.

7.4.  Common Field Parameters

   The following parameters are defined for the fields in this document.
   Profiles MAY define additional parameters.  A profile MUST NOT define
   a parameter whose name is defined in this section.

   artifact: sf-binary.  Defined only for Human-Continuity, where it is
   required.  Carries the serialized unique-human artifact required by
   the selected profile.

   purpose: sf-string.  Carries the concrete purpose.  Each Human-
   Continuity-Challenge list member and Human-Continuity item MUST
   include the purpose parameter.

   Purpose values MUST be non-empty ASCII strings and MUST NOT contain
   control characters, whitespace, DQUOTE, backslash, or the brace
   characters { and }. The brace characters are reserved for the purpose
   template syntax in policy metadata (Section 8) and never appear in a
   concrete purpose.  A purpose value that does not satisfy these
   requirements is syntactically invalid.  Purpose values are case-
   sensitive.  Clients and verifiers MUST compare purpose values by
   exact string equality after Structured Field parsing.  Clients and
   verifiers MUST NOT apply case folding, Unicode normalization, path
   normalization, percent-decoding, or scope-like expansion to purpose
   values.

   challenge: sf-binary.  Defined only for Human-Continuity-Challenge,
   where it is required.  Carries a verifier-provided challenge nonce.
   Each subsequent presentation MUST contain profile-verifiable evidence
   that the challenge nonce was used as an input to the selected
   profile's issuance or presentation process according to Section 11.3.

   Verifier-generated challenge nonces MUST be unpredictable to clients
   before issuance, MUST be generated with at least 128 bits of entropy,
   and MUST be encoded as exactly 32 octets.

   presentation-assurance: sf-string.  Identifies a presentation-
   assurance value.  The parameter can appear on Human-Continuity-
   Challenge and Human-Continuity.  Its semantics are defined in
   Section 7.5.

7.5.  Presentation Assurance

   Presentation assurance lets an origin request or receive an assertion
   that a presentation satisfies an additional assurance property.

   Presentation-assurance values MUST be non-empty ASCII strings and
   MUST NOT contain control characters, whitespace, DQUOTE, or
   backslash.  Values are case-sensitive and compared by exact string
   equality.

   This document defines initial presentation-assurance values as common
   assurance classes.  The selected profile defines how those values are
   satisfied, including evidence, ceremonies, verifier checks,
   freshness, replay behavior, privacy properties, limitations, and
   satisfaction or substitution relationships.

   Initial presentation-assurance values are:

   *  "human-approved": Profile-defined evidence that a human's approval
      covers the presentation.  Approval can be granted per presentation
      or as standing consent, such as a client or authenticator setting
      that authorizes generating presentations of a given class
      automatically.  Human interaction is not required when the
      evidence is generated.  It does not by itself establish
      participation by the subject.

   *  "human-verified": Profile-defined evidence that a human was
      prompted and completed a user verification interaction when the
      evidence was generated, such as local user verification, user
      verification by a human-controlled authenticator, or another
      profile-defined verification ceremony.  It does not by itself
      establish participation by the subject.

   *  "subject-present": Profile-defined evidence that the subject
      participated when the evidence was generated.  This document does
      not mandate any specific ceremony or mechanism for establishing
      the subject's participation.

   A profile that supports presentation-assurance values, including the
   initial values defined by this document, MUST define the meaning of
   each supported value, the evidence required, verifier checks,
   freshness requirements, replay behavior, privacy properties,
   limitations, and any satisfaction or substitution relationships
   between values.

   A profile MAY define that one presentation-assurance value satisfies
   another presentation-assurance value for that profile.  For example,
   a profile might define "subject-present" as satisfying "human-
   verified".  A verifier MUST NOT apply such substitution unless the
   selected profile explicitly defines it.  The initial values defined
   by this document are ordered by increasing assurance, from "human-
   approved" to "subject-present".  A stronger value does not satisfy a
   weaker value unless the selected profile defines that substitution.

   A verifier MUST NOT treat the same presentation-assurance value as
   equivalent across different profiles unless the relevant profile
   specifications define compatible semantics.

   When presentation-assurance appears on Human-Continuity-Challenge, it
   requests a presentation satisfying that value for the challenge
   context (Section 11.3).

   When presentation-assurance appears on Human-Continuity, it
   identifies the presentation-assurance value asserted by the client
   for that presentation.

   If the presentation responds to a Human-Continuity-Challenge that
   included presentation-assurance, the Human-Continuity field MUST
   include the same value, unless the selected profile explicitly
   defines the asserted value as satisfying the requested value.

   A verifier MUST NOT treat a requested or asserted presentation-
   assurance value as satisfied unless the selected profile verifies the
   required evidence according to that profile.  If the asserted value
   differs from the requested value, the verifier MUST NOT treat the
   request as satisfied unless the selected profile defines the asserted
   value as satisfying the requested value.

   Because presentation-assurance is a single parameter value, an origin
   that needs to challenge for multiple values that are not
   substitutable under the selected profile represents them as separate
   Human-Continuity-Challenge list members.  Policy metadata can
   authorize multiple values using presentation_assurances.

   Additional presentation-assurance values intended for use across
   profiles SHOULD be registered in the Human-Continuity Presentation
   Assurance Value registry (Section 21.3).  Values that are not
   registered MUST use a name controlled by the author of the
   specification that defines the value, such as a reverse-DNS name or a
   value prefixed by the profile identifier.

8.  Policy Metadata

   Policy metadata lets clients discover default policy selectors,
   policy selectors, policies, authorized purposes and purpose
   templates, realms, supported profiles, and presentation-assurance
   values.  Metadata also establishes the trust boundaries within which
   inline fields are interpreted.

   Policy metadata is a JSON document [RFC8259] served with media type
   application/json.  Policy metadata uses an origin-level well-known
   location.

   If a JSON object within a policy metadata document contains duplicate
   member names, the document is invalid and MUST NOT be used.

8.1.  Origin-Level Metadata

   The origin-level policy metadata location is:

   https://example.com/.well-known/human-continuity

   The metadata document's origin member MUST equal the canonical HTTPS
   origin that serves the metadata.

   The metadata document is the human-continuity policy for the
   canonical HTTPS origin.

8.2.  Selectors and Policy Entries

   An origin-level metadata document MUST include policies,
   policy_selectors, and default_policy_selectors members.

   A default policy selector is analogous to a default route: it maps an
   HTTP method to one policy identifier when no policy selector matches
   the request path for that method.

   Each policies member value is a policy definition.  A policy
   identifier is an origin-local name used to select one policy
   definition.  For single-endpoint APIs such as GraphQL or RPC, one
   policy identifier can describe the HTTP endpoint while individual
   purposes or purpose templates describe continuity contexts authorized
   within that endpoint.  A policy definition does not apply to a
   request merely because it exists in policy metadata.  A request
   selects a policy only through the policy selection algorithm, using
   policy_selectors or default_policy_selectors.

   Within one policy metadata document, if two purpose entries in
   different policies can authorize the same concrete purpose, those
   entries MUST specify the same realm.  Two purpose entries in
   different policies can authorize the same concrete purpose if their
   names are the same purpose, if one entry's name is a purpose that the
   other's purpose template would authorize, or if both names are
   purpose templates and one template prefix is a prefix of the other,
   including equal prefixes.  This check is computable from the entry
   names alone, without enumerating concrete purposes.  If two such
   entries specify different realms, the metadata document is invalid
   and MUST NOT be used.  This prevents the same continuity set from
   producing different continuity_handle values solely because different
   request methods, paths, or purpose entries selected different realms.
   Different purposes MAY use different realms.

   Each policy_selectors member name and each default_policy_selectors
   member name MUST be a valid HTTP method token.  Each path pattern
   member name under a policy_selectors method member MUST be a valid
   path pattern.  Each policy_selectors path pattern member value and
   each default_policy_selectors member value MUST identify exactly one
   policy definition in the same metadata document.

   This version defines only exact path patterns, terminal "/**" subtree
   patterns, exact method token matching, exact purpose matching, and
   the limited purpose template syntax defined below.  No other matching
   behavior is implied.

8.3.  Metadata Members

   A policy metadata document has the following members.

   origin: REQUIRED string.  The canonical HTTPS origin described by
   this metadata document.

   default_policy_selectors: REQUIRED object.  Each member name is an
   HTTP method token.  Each member value is the policy identifier
   selected when no policy selector matches the request path for that
   method.

   policy_selectors: REQUIRED object.  Each member name is an HTTP
   method token.  Each member value is an object whose member names are
   path patterns and whose member values are policy identifiers for that
   method.

   policies: REQUIRED object.  Each member name is a policy identifier
   and each member value is a policy definition.

   Policy identifiers MUST use the HTTP token syntax defined by
   [RFC9110], Section 5.6.2.  Policy identifiers are case-sensitive and
   compared by exact string equality.

   Each policy_selectors method object has path pattern member names.  A
   path pattern MUST begin with "/", MUST NOT be "/", MUST NOT be "/**",
   MUST NOT begin with "/.well-known/", MUST NOT contain dot-segments,
   as defined by [RFC3986], and MUST NOT contain an empty path segment,
   that is, the character sequence "//".  A path pattern either contains
   no wildcard or ends with "/**".  The wildcard character "*" MUST NOT
   appear anywhere else.

   An exact path pattern, such as "/account/recovery" or "/account/
   recovery/", matches only that request path.  An exact path match
   takes precedence over subtree matching.  A subtree pattern, such as
   "/account/recovery/**", matches request paths below that prefix.  If
   no exact path match exists, the most specific matching subtree
   pattern takes precedence.

   The value of each path pattern member is the policy identifier
   selected by that policy selector.

   Each policy definition has the following members.

   purposes: REQUIRED object.  Each member is a purpose entry whose name
   is either a purpose or a purpose template.

   The purposes object MAY be empty.  A selected policy whose purposes
   object is empty authorizes no challenges or presentations for
   requests that select it.  Combined with the prohibition on post-
   selection fallback, an empty purposes object lets an origin
   explicitly exclude paths and methods from human-continuity policy
   that a default policy selector or less-specific subtree pattern would
   otherwise apply.

   A purpose listed as an entry name authorizes exactly that purpose.

   A purpose template uses the purpose value syntax, except that it
   contains { and } as template delimiters: it contains exactly one
   delimiter sequence :{, has non-empty text before the delimiter, has a
   non-empty variable name after the delimiter, contains no other { or }
   characters, and ends with }. The template prefix is the substring
   before {, including the preceding colon.  The template variable name
   is the substring between { and } and is documentation only.  A
   purpose template authorizes a concrete purpose only if the concrete
   purpose begins with the template prefix and contains at least one
   additional character after the template prefix.  For example, the
   purpose template "promo:{campaign}" has the template prefix "promo:"
   and authorizes concrete purpose values such as "promo:summer-sale",
   but not "promo:".

   The concrete purpose, not the purpose template or variable name, is
   part of the continuity scope.

   Template prefixes MUST NOT overlap within one policy definition.  Two
   template prefixes overlap if one concrete purpose value can match
   both templates.  If a policy definition contains overlapping template
   prefixes, the metadata document is invalid and MUST NOT be used.

   If an entry name contains { or } but does not satisfy the purpose
   template syntax, the metadata document is invalid and MUST NOT be
   used (Section 8.5).  Because concrete purpose values cannot contain {
   or } (Section 7.4), a purpose template is never exactly equal to a
   concrete purpose.

   Clients and verifiers MUST compare purposes by exact string equality
   after Structured Field parsing of the purpose field parameter.  They
   MUST compare purpose templates by exact string prefix matching
   against the concrete purpose value after Structured Field parsing,
   including the requirement that at least one character follows the
   template prefix.  They MUST NOT apply case folding, Unicode
   normalization, path normalization, percent-decoding, glob matching,
   regular expression matching, or URI template matching.

   A purpose entry carries the following members.

   realm: REQUIRED string.  The realm used for this purpose entry.
   Realm values used for continuity scope comparison are compared by
   exact string equality.

   profiles: REQUIRED non-empty object.  Each member is a profile entry
   whose name is a profile identifier and whose value describes how that
   profile can be used with this policy and purpose entry.

   Profile identifiers in policy metadata use the syntax defined in
   Section 10.1.  They are case-sensitive and compared by exact string
   equality.

   Each profile entry has the following members.

   presentation_assurances: OPTIONAL non-empty array of unique strings.
   The presentation-assurance values directly authorized for this
   profile entry.  A directly authorized value can be requested in
   Human-Continuity-Challenge or asserted in Human-Continuity even when
   the challenge did not request it.  If omitted, policy metadata does
   not authorize presentation-assurance support for this profile entry.

   Profile entries are the profile-scoped extension point (Section 8.5).

8.4.  Authorization by Policy Metadata

   A challenge or presentation is authorized by policy metadata when it
   satisfies the requirements of this section, which authorize,
   together, the request method, the effective policy identifier, the
   effective realm, the concrete purpose, the selected profile, and the
   selected presentation-assurance value, if any.  The effective
   attestation audience is derived from the request according to
   Section 6.4.

   For an effective policy identifier, an inline challenge or
   presentation is authorized by policy metadata only if the concrete
   purpose selects a single purpose entry according to Section 6.4 and
   the selected purpose entry's profiles object contains a profile entry
   whose name equals the selected profile and that satisfies all
   applicable requirements.

   The selected purpose entry MUST contain exactly one realm.  The
   selected purpose entry's name MUST equal the purpose field parameter
   or, for a purpose template, MUST match it according to the purpose
   template rules in Section 8.3.  The selected profile entry is the
   profile entry whose name equals the profile field value.  If a
   presentation-assurance value is requested, the selected profile entry
   MUST include that value in presentation_assurances.  If a
   presentation-assurance value is asserted, the selected profile entry
   MUST include the asserted value in presentation_assurances, unless
   the selected profile defines the asserted value as satisfying a
   requested value included by that profile entry.

   Policy metadata can constrain purpose, profile use, and presentation-
   assurance values for a profile.  It MUST NOT redefine the profile's
   specified privacy properties, holder binding requirements,
   presentation-assurance semantics, continuity_handle semantics, replay
   model, artifact syntax, or artifact size behavior.

8.5.  Metadata Precedence and Trust

   Policy metadata defines default policy selectors, policy selectors,
   policies, trusted realms, authorized purposes, supported profiles,
   and presentation-assurance values.

   Fetched policy metadata is authoritative only as a policy statement
   by the origin that serves it.

   Configured metadata is a policy metadata or realm metadata document
   provisioned through a trusted out-of-band mechanism instead of being
   fetched.  It is authoritative only to the extent of the mechanism
   that provisioned it and is otherwise processed using the same rules
   as the corresponding fetched document.  A configured policy metadata
   document's origin member MUST exactly match the canonical HTTPS
   origin for which it was provisioned.  A configured realm metadata
   document's realm member MUST exactly match the realm for which it was
   provisioned.

   A client MUST NOT use policy metadata unless it was obtained over
   HTTPS from the origin-level metadata location for the request's
   canonical HTTPS origin, or it is valid configured policy metadata for
   that canonical HTTPS origin.  In both cases, the policy metadata
   document's origin member MUST exactly match that canonical HTTPS
   origin.

   A fetched document MUST NOT be used as policy metadata or realm
   metadata unless the response of the fetch has status code 200 and the
   media type required for that document, matching metadata retrieval in
   [RFC9728].  Core metadata fetches MUST NOT follow cross-origin
   redirects, which do not establish policy absence (Section 6.2).

   Realm origins and other URLs obtained from fetched metadata are
   untrusted.  Unless trusted local configuration authorizes the exact
   private destination, a client or verifier fetching such a URL MUST
   reject any IP literal or resolved address that is loopback, link-
   local, private-use, multicast, unspecified, or otherwise not globally
   routable; fetched metadata cannot grant this exception.  That client
   or verifier MUST validate every connection target, including
   redirects, connect only to the validated address, and send no
   automatically attached cookies, Authorization credentials, or human-
   continuity fields.

   HTTPS protects the fetch.  Beyond that, this specification does not
   authenticate the origin's policy choices or protect against
   compromised origin infrastructure.

   A policy metadata or realm metadata document MAY contain members not
   defined by this document.  A client or verifier MUST ignore an
   unrecognized member of the document, of a policy definition, or of a
   purpose entry.  Profile entries in both documents are the profile-
   scoped extension point: a profile MAY define additional members in
   its profile entry.  Such members are owned by that profile, are
   interpreted only when that profile is selected, and MUST NOT redefine
   or override members defined by this document.  A client or verifier
   MUST ignore any such member it does not understand or that belongs to
   a profile it does not implement.

   Where this document assigns syntax to JSON member names, a name that
   fails the syntax for its position invalidates the metadata document
   and MUST NOT be ignored as unrecognized.  This applies to member
   names used as HTTP method tokens, path patterns, policy identifiers,
   purposes, purpose templates, or profile identifiers.  For profile
   identifiers, this invalidity rule covers only the string syntax in
   Section 10.1; clients and verifiers do not validate the reverse-DNS
   naming structure.

   A profile-defined member that carries a URL for an endpoint,
   verification material, or verification procedure MUST require that
   URL to use the "https" URI scheme.  A profile-defined member that
   conveys material by another means MUST define the authenticated
   retrieval or trust model for that material.

   Inline fields describe the current response's challenged human-
   continuity requirements or the current request's presentation.  They
   MUST NOT cause a client to trust a realm, attestation audience,
   purpose, profile, method-to-policy selection, or policy identifier
   that it would not otherwise trust.

   A client encountering an inline reference to an unknown profile or
   profile-specific field parameter SHOULD refresh fetched policy
   metadata over HTTPS or revalidate configured policy metadata before
   proceeding.  If the refreshed or revalidated metadata does not
   authorize the selected profile or presentation-assurance value for
   the selected policy and purpose, the client MUST NOT proceed.

   A client MAY rely on cached policy metadata only while that metadata
   remains valid under its cache directives and the client's configured
   freshness limits.  A client MAY rely on configured policy metadata
   only while that metadata remains valid under the client's configured
   freshness limits.  If fresh metadata cannot be obtained and no valid
   cached or configured metadata authorizes the concrete purpose,
   profile, and presentation-assurance value when present, the client
   MUST NOT proceed.

   Inline fields MAY select or narrow profile, purpose, and
   presentation-assurance parameters within the policy selected by the
   request and policy metadata.  Inline fields MUST NOT broaden
   authorized purposes, profile choices, or presentation-assurance
   values authorized by policy metadata.

   If the challenge or presentation is not authorized by policy metadata
   (Section 8.4), the client MUST ignore the inline value and MUST NOT
   obtain or present a unique-human artifact based on it.

9.  Realm Metadata

   Realm metadata describes realm operator capabilities, issuance
   endpoints, profile-defined verification and revocation information,
   and unique-human profile support.  The verification material and
   verification procedure for a profile are defined by that profile.

   Depending on the profile, verification material can be a JWK Set
   [RFC7517], a zero-knowledge verifying key or circuit identifier, a
   contract address and a source of ledger state, a transparency log or
   accumulator reference, or no fetched material at all.  This document
   defines no verification material member of its own and privileges no
   verification material form.

   After selecting the effective realm from policy metadata, a client or
   verifier MUST NOT treat that realm as supporting the selected profile
   unless support is indicated by one of:

   *  realm metadata obtained for the effective realm using the well-
      known mechanism defined below;

   *  configured realm metadata for the effective realm (Section 8.5);
      or

   *  realm metadata obtained as defined by the selected profile
      (Section 10).

   If realm metadata required for the selected profile is missing,
   cannot be obtained, or is stale beyond the freshness limit defined by
   the profile or origin, a client MUST NOT obtain or present an
   artifact based on that realm metadata, and a verifier MUST treat the
   presentation as unverifiable for that profile.  This applies to every
   source above.

   The rest of this section defines the well-known mechanism.  It
   applies only when the effective realm is a canonical HTTPS origin
   (Section 6.1); obtaining realm metadata for any other effective
   realm, such as a non-HTTPS identifier or one that carries a path,
   query, fragment, or userinfo, is defined by the selected profile
   (Section 10).

   The realm metadata location is formed by appending /.well-known/
   human-continuity-realm to the effective realm:

   https://realm.example/.well-known/human-continuity-realm

   The realm metadata document is a JSON document [RFC8259] served with
   media type application/json, and is fetched subject to the
   requirements of Section 8.5.  Its realm member MUST exactly match the
   effective realm.  The document indicates support for the selected
   profile through a realm profile entry for that profile; absence of
   that entry means realm metadata for the selected profile is missing.

   If a JSON object within the document contains duplicate member names,
   the document is invalid and MUST NOT be used.

   A realm metadata document has the following members.

   realm: REQUIRED string.  The realm the document describes.  It MUST
   match the realm under which artifacts are produced.

   profiles: REQUIRED non-empty object.  Each member is a realm profile
   entry whose name is a profile identifier and whose value describes
   the realm's support for that profile.

   Profile identifiers in realm metadata use the syntax defined in
   Section 10.1.  They are case-sensitive and compared by exact string
   equality.

   Each realm profile entry has the following members.

   issuance_endpoint: OPTIONAL string.  The HTTPS URL of the endpoint
   used to request issuance, if the profile uses an HTTP issuance
   endpoint.

   A profile whose artifacts are verified against a JWK Set, a verifying
   key, or other fetched verification material defines the member that
   conveys it; lifecycle and compromise requirements for that material
   are defined in Section 10.  A profile that supports revocation
   likewise defines the member that conveys revocation metadata.

   max_artifact_size_issued: OPTIONAL positive integer.  An upper bound,
   in octets, on the serialized artifact value produced for this profile
   under the realm metadata entry, whether the artifact is issued
   directly or constructed by the client from operator-provided
   material.  If omitted, the realm operator makes no artifact size
   commitment for this profile entry.  Origins use this value when
   deciding whether to accept the profile.  This value does not
   guarantee that an intermediary will accept that artifact size.

   Revocation semantics are profile-defined.  This document does not
   require origins to perform online revocation checks on the request
   path.

   Realm profile entries are the profile-scoped extension point
   (Section 8.5): for example, a profile can define a verifying key
   reference and circuit identifier for a zero-knowledge profile, or a
   chain identifier, verifier contract, and source of ledger state for a
   profile verified against distributed ledger state.

10.  Unique-Human Profiles

   The core specification defines no initial unique-human profiles.

   This document defines the HTTP discovery, challenge, presentation,
   and verification framework.  It is not independently deployable
   without at least one unique-human profile that defines artifact
   syntax, issuance, verification, holder binding, challenge nonce
   binding, replay behavior, privacy properties, and continuity_handle
   derivation.

   Profile specifications MAY be published independently of this
   document.  Profile identifiers follow the syntax and naming rules in
   Section 10.1.  Publication of a profile does not imply that the
   profile is preferred, mandatory, or endorsed by this core
   specification.

   Profiles SHOULD support local verification by the origin.  The core
   protocol does not require the origin to call the realm operator on
   the request path.

   Implementations and interoperability reports for this protocol SHOULD
   identify the unique-human profile or profiles used for testing.  A
   core implementation that only parses the HTTP fields and metadata,
   but does not implement a concrete profile, is not sufficient to
   demonstrate end-to-end interoperability.

10.1.  Profile Identifiers

   Profile identifiers are non-empty, case-sensitive ASCII strings
   carried as Structured Field string values and compared by exact
   string equality.  Profile identifiers SHOULD be short enough for
   practical use in HTTP fields and MUST NOT contain control characters,
   whitespace, DQUOTE, or backslash.

   A profile identifier MUST use a reverse-DNS prefix within a domain
   controlled by the profile author, such as "com.example.unique-
   human.v1".  The profile author is responsible for taking reasonable
   precautions to ensure that it controls the portion of the DNS
   namespace from which the identifier is derived, so that independently
   defined profiles do not collide.

   The domain in a profile identifier identifies the author of the
   profile specification.  It implies nothing about the realm of any
   artifact: a profile can be supported by any number of realms, and the
   effective realm is selected by policy metadata (Section 6.4)
   independently of the profile identifier's namespace.

   A profile identifier is permanently bound to the specification that
   defines it.  A revision that changes artifact syntax, verification
   behavior, challenge nonce binding, replay behavior, or
   continuity_handle derivation MUST use a new profile identifier, such
   as one with an incremented version suffix.

   The naming rules in this section bind profile specifications, not
   protocol participants.  Clients and verifiers compare profile
   identifiers as opaque strings and do not validate naming structure or
   domain control.

10.2.  Specification Requirements

   A profile specification MUST define:

   *  profile identifier;

   *  artifact syntax;

   *  issuance model;

   *  issuance accessibility constraints, such as device, connectivity,
      enrollment, biometric, or jurisdictional requirements that
      determine which humans can obtain an artifact;

   *  verification algorithm;

   *  the trust anchors and verification material used by the
      verification algorithm, and verifier behavior for selecting that
      material, for its freshness and refresh, for rotation (including
      overlap and retirement), and for missing or stale material, and
      the response to compromise of that material;

   *  the conditions under which verification fails, and the state those
      conditions produce in verifier output;

   *  realm metadata requirements;

   *  how the artifact binds the continuity_handle to the realm,
      attestation audience, and purpose;

   *  holder binding requirements;

   *  challenge nonce binding, as required by Section 11.3;

   *  replay or double-spend behavior;

   *  whether revocation is supported; and, if supported, what can be
      revoked, the member that conveys revocation metadata, how
      verifiers discover revocation state, the maximum staleness a
      verifier accepts for revocation state, whether revocation is
      forward-looking only or affects previously accepted presentations,
      and verifier behavior when revocation metadata is unavailable;

   *  supported presentation-assurance values, if any, including
      evidence, verifier checks, satisfaction relationships with other
      values, freshness requirements, replay behavior, privacy
      properties, and limitations;

   *  profile-specific HTTP field parameters, if any, including syntax,
      applicable fields, optional or mandatory status, and processing
      rules; these parameters MUST NOT replace or redefine parameters
      defined by this document;

   *  verifier output;

   *  continuity_handle format and semantics, including length, opacity,
      collision resistance, non-malleability, stability, comparison
      rules, and profile-specific validation rules;

   *  lifecycle behavior affecting continuity_handle stability or
      validity, including recovery, credential refresh, re-enrollment,
      rotation of realm operator trust material, realm migration,
      revocation, and realm operator compromise, when applicable;

   *  privacy properties; and

   *  security considerations specific to the profile.

   A profile MUST define its state, recovery, and device continuity
   model.  For profiles that are not intended for long-lived, multi-
   device, or recoverable use cases, this can be an explicit statement
   that loss of client-held state prevents future presentations,
   requires re-issuance that preserves the continuity_handle invariant,
   or causes affected artifacts or verification states to become invalid
   or unverifiable.  It MUST specify:

   *  what private state is held by the client, holder, realm operator,
      and verifier;

   *  whether loss of client-held state prevents future presentations;

   *  whether a holder can migrate to a new device and still obtain
      artifacts that produce the same continuity_handle for an existing
      continuity scope;

   *  how holder key rotation, credential refresh, recovery, re-
      enrollment, rotation of realm operator trust material, realm
      migration, revocation, or realm operator compromise affects
      presentation validity, verifier output, and continuity_handle
      stability;

   *  how a verifier discovers realm operator compromise and how it
      treats artifacts issued before compromise detection;

   *  whether recovery requires realm operator interaction, user re-
      authentication, biometric re-verification, account recovery,
      social recovery, hardware-backed key recovery, or another
      mechanism; and

   *  what privacy or abuse risks are introduced by the recovery
      mechanism.

   Profiles that rely on unrecoverable client-local state MUST declare
   that property explicitly.  Profiles that support recovery or device
   migration MUST define how they preserve scoped human-continuity
   semantics without exposing a global human identifier or enabling
   correlation outside the continuity scope.

10.3.  Human-Continuity Handle Requirements

   A profile that does not produce a continuity_handle for a valid
   presentation is not conformant with this specification.  A successful
   verification result for a conforming profile MUST include a verifier-
   local continuity_handle.

   The continuity_handle MUST be opaque and canonically encoded.  Under
   the profile's documented assumptions, prediction, preimage, and
   second-preimage resistance MUST be at least 112 bits and SHOULD be at
   least 128 bits.  Enumeration and malleation MUST be infeasible, and
   accidental collisions MUST be negligible at the profile's maximum
   supported population.

   The continuity_handle MUST be cryptographically bound to the
   continuity scope.  A conforming profile MUST use domain separation or
   an equivalent construction so that continuity_handle values for
   different continuity scopes are not correlatable and cannot be
   transformed into one another.

   The core protocol defines continuity scope and continuity_handle
   comparison semantics.  Profiles MUST NOT redefine these semantics.

   The continuity scope is the tuple (realm, attestation audience,
   purpose).  The profile identifier is not part of the continuity
   scope.

   A verifier MUST compare continuity_handle values only within the same
   continuity scope.

   For the same realm, attestation audience, purpose, and verified
   human, a conforming profile MUST produce the same continuity_handle.
   For different continuity scopes, a conforming profile MUST NOT
   produce correlatable continuity_handle values.

   For the same realm, attestation audience, and purpose, two different
   continuity_handle values MUST represent different verified humans,
   subject to the selected profile's security assumptions and compromise
   model.

   If the same realm supports multiple profiles for the same attestation
   audience and purpose, valid presentations under those profiles MUST
   produce the same continuity_handle for the same verified human.
   Profiles that cannot satisfy this requirement MUST use distinct
   realms.

   Excluding the profile identifier from the continuity scope is
   intentional.  It allows a realm operator to migrate between profiles,
   or to offer several profiles for the same verified human population,
   without causing the same human to receive different verifier-visible
   continuity_handle values for the same realm, attestation audience,
   and purpose.  A realm operator that cannot preserve the invariant
   across its profiles MUST use distinct realms, which places those
   profiles in distinct continuity scopes.

   Conversely, multiple realms MAY support the same profile.  Each
   effective realm forms a distinct continuity scope, even when their
   realm operators attest the same underlying credential population or
   rely on the same verification material.

   Differences in profile assurance, holder binding, replay behavior,
   artifact syntax, issuance ceremony, verification method, or other
   profile properties are inputs to verifier output or origin policy.
   They MUST NOT be represented by changing the continuity_handle for
   the same continuity scope and verified human.

10.4.  Privacy Properties

   Profile privacy properties MUST include:

   artifact_linkability: What linkability is exposed by observing the
   artifact or presentation, independent of any continuity_handle in
   verifier output.  Examples include single-use artifacts whose content
   does not link presentations, scope-local artifacts linkable only
   within the same continuity scope, reusable artifacts whose repeated
   use is linkable, or another profile-defined model.

   scope_binding: How the artifact cryptographically binds the
   continuity_handle to the realm, attestation audience, and purpose
   defined by this specification.

   holder_binding: Whether the profile is holder-bound, and if so how
   the artifact is bound to the holder key.

   realm_operator_attestation_audience_visibility: Whether the realm
   operator learns no attestation audience, the attestation audience at
   issuance, the attestation audience at redemption, or profile-defined
   attestation audience information.

   realm_operator_purpose_visibility: Whether the realm operator learns
   no purpose, the purpose at issuance, the purpose at redemption, or
   profile-defined purpose information.

   realm_operator_challenge_visibility: Whether the realm operator
   learns no challenge nonce, the challenge nonce at issuance, the
   challenge nonce at redemption, or profile-defined challenge nonce
   information.

   realm_metadata_fetch_visibility: What client information, if any, is
   revealed while obtaining realm metadata for the profile.

10.5.  Example Profile Categories

   This section is informative.  It gives examples of companion profile
   categories for early discussion.  These examples are illustrative
   only; a real profile can combine these patterns.

   *  Unique-human profiles based on accounts or registries.  Such a
      profile would define how a holder proves control of, or membership
      in, a unique-human account or registry entry.  The profile would
      define how the verifier's origin policy context is mapped to
      realm, attestation audience, and purpose, how the resulting
      nullifier or equivalent scope-local value is exposed as
      continuity_handle, and what replay, holder binding, recovery, and
      privacy properties verifiers can rely on.

   *  Proof profiles backed by credentials or certificates.  Such a
      profile would define how a holder proves possession of a
      qualifying credential, certificate, or attestation signed by the
      realm operator.  The profile would define the artifact format,
      realm operator trust model, verifier algorithm, revocation
      handling, holder binding, replay behavior, lifecycle behavior, and
      derivation of a scoped continuity_handle.

   Other realm operators, credential systems, proof systems, and
   issuance ceremonies can define profiles without changing the HTTP
   fields, policy metadata, realm metadata, or core verifier output
   model defined here.

11.  Holder-Bound Presentations

   A holder-bound profile prevents a stolen artifact from being useful
   without the holder key.  This document uses HTTP Message Signatures
   [RFC9421] as the request signing mechanism for holder-bound profiles.

   Profiles with reusable artifacts SHOULD be holder-bound when artifact
   disclosure alone would otherwise enable presentation.

   Holder keys and stable references to them, such as key identifiers or
   thumbprints, can themselves be linkability handles.  Clients MUST use
   holder keying material scoped no broader than the continuity scope.

11.1.  Binding the Artifact to the HTTP Message Signature Key

   A holder-bound profile MUST define how the verifier obtains or
   reconstructs the holder signature verification key.

   For JWT-like artifacts that use JWKs to confirm the holder key, a
   profile can use a confirmation claim [RFC7800].  If the artifact
   contains a JWK thumbprint confirmation value, the value MUST be the
   base64url-encoded SHA-256 JWK Thumbprint [RFC7638] of the holder
   public key.

   When the client presents a holder-bound artifact, it MUST also attach
   an HTTP Message Signature.  The verifier MUST:

   1.  Verify the unique-human artifact according to its profile.

   2.  Extract the holder signature verification key, key reference, or
       thumbprint from the artifact according to the profile.

   3.  Resolve the HTTP Message Signature verification key according to
       the profile.

   4.  Verify the HTTP Message Signature using that key.

   5.  Confirm that the HTTP Message Signature verification key matches
       the holder binding in the artifact according to the profile.

   6.  Reject the presentation if any binding check fails.

   The keyid parameter in Signature-Input identifies a key.  It does
   not, by itself, transport the public key or prove that the key is
   bound to the artifact.  A profile MUST define the key resolution and
   binding procedure.  The keyid values in this document's examples use
   the JWK Thumbprint URI form [RFC9278].

11.2.  HTTP Message Signature Requirements

   For holder-bound profiles, the signature input MUST cover, at
   minimum:

   *  @method;

   *  @target-uri; and

   *  human-continuity, using the sf component parameter defined by
      [RFC9421].

   A profile MAY require additional covered components based on request
   method, request content, or profile semantics.

   If a holder-bound presentation includes Content-Digest [RFC9530], the
   signature input MUST cover the content-digest component.

   The client MUST attach exactly one signature whose tag parameter
   value is human-continuity; that signature's parameters MUST also
   include created and expires.  Signatures with other tag values
   (Section 7.2.7 of [RFC9421]) can coexist on the same message; this
   document places no requirements on them.

   When the selected profile is holder-bound, the verifier MUST select
   the signature by that tag value and apply the binding procedure of
   Section 11.1 to it.  If no signature, or more than one, carries that
   tag value, the verifier MUST reject the presentation.  The verifier
   MUST also reject the presentation if the signature's parameters do
   not include both created and expires, or if, beyond the verifier's
   clock skew allowance (Section 11.3), the created value is in the
   future or the expires value is in the past.  Signature labels carry
   no semantics and intermediaries can relabel signatures (Section 7.2.5
   of [RFC9421]).

   Profiles MAY require keyid, alg, nonce, or other parameters defined
   by [RFC9421].  The nonce signature parameter provides request-level
   replay protection only; it does not satisfy the challenge nonce
   binding requirement of Section 11.3.

   Other signing requirements are profile-defined.

11.3.  Freshness and Replay Model

11.3.1.  Profile Contract

   A profile MUST define its challenge nonce binding and replay model.

   The profile MUST state how the nonce is carried, consumed, and
   verified; whether artifacts and separately generated proofs can be
   reused under one nonce or regenerated for a new nonce; whether
   identical request-level presentation material can be accepted more
   than once; and which replay keys it makes applicable.

   All presentations are challenge-bound.  Challenge acceptance mode,
   artifact reuse, request replay, and per-human policy are separate
   properties.

11.3.2.  Challenge Context and Acceptance

   A presentation MUST prove that the challenge nonce was an input to
   the profile's issuance or presentation process.  A verifier MUST
   reject it as invalid if the nonce is missing, expired, retired, or
   was not issued for the matching challenge context.  An HTTP Message
   Signature nonce alone does not meet this requirement.

   The challenge context is the profile, effective realm, effective
   attestation audience, purpose, and requested presentation-assurance
   value if any.  Policy metadata independently authorizes each request.

   A verifier MUST assign each nonce a validity interval and MAY retire
   it early.  It can avoid storing the challenge context, acceptance
   mode, and validity interval per nonce by cryptographically
   authenticating them within the nonce.  Replay protection and early
   retirement can still require authoritative state.

   At issuance, the verifier MUST bind exactly one acceptance mode to
   the nonce:

   Single-use acceptance: The challenge replay key applies, so at most
   one presentation bound to the nonce and context can be accepted.
   This is at-most-once acceptance, not exactly-once application
   effects.

   Window acceptance: No challenge replay key applies.  Multiple
   presentations MAY be accepted while the nonce remains valid, subject
   to profile replay rules.  Without another replay key, a captured
   request can be replayed during that interval.

11.3.3.  Replay Keys and Final Acceptance

   The challenge replay key is the challenge nonce plus challenge
   context and MUST NOT vary by artifact, holder key, or signature
   nonce.  A signature nonce replay key is the challenge nonce,
   challenge context, HTTP Message Signature nonce, and holder key
   thumbprint or profile-defined holder identifier.  A profile MAY
   define other keys but MUST define their scope and applicability.

   After all other validation succeeds and before returning valid, a
   verifier MUST atomically check and record every applicable replay key
   in authoritative replay state.  If a key was already recorded, reject
   as invalid; if the operation cannot complete, return unverifiable.

   Replay state, and any nonce state or key material it depends on, MUST
   remain available until the presentations it governs can no longer be
   accepted, including configured clock skew.  Where replay protection
   or mutable nonce state applies, replicas MUST share authoritative
   state.  Verifiers SHOULD keep skew small; 60 seconds is RECOMMENDED,
   and an acceptance interval MUST NOT expand after its replay state is
   discarded.

11.3.4.  Security Boundary

   Challenge binding establishes freshness at challenge granularity;
   replay keys prevent repeated acceptance; per-human policy operates
   separately on continuity_handle.  Holder-bound presentations sign the
   components required by Section 11.2.  This specification defines no
   equivalent request binding for bearer presentations.

   A validated challenge proves only that the profile used the verifier
   nonce.  Evidence for any requested or asserted presentation-assurance
   value MUST be bound to the profile, effective realm, effective
   attestation audience, purpose, and challenge nonce.  If the challenge
   omits presentation-assurance, this document requests no additional
   presentation assurance.

11.4.  Request Content Binding

   This document does not require Content-Digest on every request with
   content.  If Content-Digest is present on a holder-bound request, the
   signature input MUST cover the content-digest component.  A profile
   MAY require Content-Digest coverage when request content is security-
   relevant to the attestation decision.

   A request with no content does not require Content-Digest unless a
   profile explicitly requires a digest of empty content.

   If a request contains content and Content-Digest is not covered by
   the HTTP Message Signature, the verifier MUST NOT claim that the
   human-continuity presentation is cryptographically bound to the
   complete request content.

   For single-endpoint APIs where the application operation is carried
   in request content, such as GraphQL or RPC over POST, an origin that
   uses Human-Continuity for operation-specific policy SHOULD select a
   profile that requires Content-Digest coverage.  If the request
   content is not covered, the verifier MUST NOT claim that the
   presentation is bound to a specific operation.

12.  Client Behavior

   A client MAY ignore Human-Continuity-Challenge.

   If a client has no valid policy metadata under which the challenge is
   authorized (Section 8.4), the client MUST ignore the challenge.  The
   client MUST also ignore the challenge if the purpose value is absent
   or syntactically invalid.  Ignoring a challenge means that the client
   does not obtain or present a unique-human artifact based on that
   inline value.  This does not require the underlying HTTP request or
   interaction to fail.

   A client presents only in response to Human-Continuity-Challenge: the
   concrete purpose, the profile alternatives, the challenge nonce, and
   any requested presentation-assurance value are carried by the
   challenge and validated against policy metadata (Section 8.4).  The
   normal flow is to make the request, receive Human-Continuity-
   Challenge, and retry according to origin policy.  This governs
   presentation timing only; a client can hold pre-existing profile
   enrollment state or reusable artifacts unless the selected profile
   says otherwise.

   If the selected profile permits artifact reuse, a client MAY retain
   an artifact bound to a challenge nonce and attempt to use it on
   subsequent requests matching the challenge context while that nonce
   remains valid (Section 11.3).  If the profile permits reuse of the
   same presentation material, the client MAY retain and resend it.
   Repeat acceptance requires window acceptance and compliance with the
   profile's replay rules.  When the verifier stops accepting the nonce,
   it can issue a new Human-Continuity-Challenge, and the client obtains
   a presentation bound to the new nonce and retries.

   Obtaining a presentation can be expensive: profile issuance or
   presentation ceremonies can involve realm operator interaction, proof
   generation, or human interaction.  A client SHOULD bound and back off
   artifact regeneration when presentations for a request context are
   repeatedly rejected or repeatedly re-challenged.

   A client that chooses to use this protocol MUST:

   *  parse fields according to [RFC9651];

   *  determine the effective policy identifier, effective realm,
      effective attestation audience, and purpose according to
      Section 6.4 and Section 8;

   *  verify that the challenge or presentation is authorized by policy
      metadata (Section 8.4);

   *  ensure that inline fields do not expand trust beyond metadata;

   *  obtain or select an artifact appropriate for the profile,
      effective realm, effective attestation audience, and purpose;

   *  ensure that any selected presentation-assurance value requested by
      Human-Continuity-Challenge is authorized by policy metadata;

   *  ensure that any asserted presentation-assurance value is supported
      by the selected profile, can be satisfied for the presentation,
      and either matches the requested value, is defined by the selected
      profile as satisfying that requested value, or, when no requested
      value is being satisfied, is itself authorized by policy metadata;

   *  present the artifact only for the effective realm, effective
      attestation audience, and purpose for which it is valid;

   *  attach an HTTP Message Signature satisfying Section 11.2 when the
      selected profile is holder-bound; and

   *  avoid exposing artifacts, holder keys, signature material, or
      bearer-like material to untrusted code, prompt transcripts, logs,
      shell history, or user-visible text.

   Clients SHOULD store persistent holder keys in platform credential
   storage when available.  Browser clients using persistent holder-
   bound keys SHOULD use non-extractable key material, such as non-
   extractable WebCrypto CryptoKey objects, rather than exportable key
   material.

13.  Verifier Behavior

   A verifier that receives Human-Continuity MUST parse it according to
   Section 7.3 and MUST NOT use an invalid Human-Continuity signal as a
   valid presentation.

   If parsing succeeds, the verifier MUST:

   1.  Determine the request method and effective policy identifier from
       the request according to Section 6.2.

   2.  Determine the selected profile, purpose, and selected
       presentation-assurance value, if any, from the parsed Human-
       Continuity field.

   3.  Determine the effective realm and effective attestation audience
       according to Section 6.4.

   4.  If the selected profile is supported, verify the artifact
       according to that profile before using the presentation for
       policy.

   The verifier MUST NOT treat the presentation as valid unless all of
   the following hold:

   *  the presentation is authorized by policy metadata (Section 8.4);

   *  the verifier supports the selected profile;

   *  the purpose value is present, syntactically valid, and accepted by
      origin policy for the request;

   *  the presentation contains profile-verifiable evidence for a
      challenge nonce the verifier issued for the matching challenge
      context and still accepts (Section 11.3);

   *  the selected profile verifies that the artifact is bound to the
      effective realm, effective attestation audience, and purpose.

   A verifier MUST accept a presentation only for the challenge context
   it issued.  The profile, effective realm, effective attestation
   audience, purpose, requested presentation-assurance value, and
   challenge nonce MUST match the challenge, and policy metadata MUST
   authorize the current request.

   If Human-Continuity-Challenge requested presentation-assurance, the
   verifier MUST reject the presentation unless the selected profile
   verifies the required evidence.  The evidence MUST be present, fresh,
   bound to the same profile, effective realm, effective attestation
   audience, purpose, and challenge nonce, and satisfy the selected
   profile's verification rules.

   If Human-Continuity asserts presentation-assurance that the challenge
   did not request, the verifier MUST apply the selected profile's
   evidence, freshness, and replay rules for that value.  The verifier
   MUST NOT accept the asserted assurance unless the required profile-
   defined evidence is present and valid.

   A verifier MUST enforce the constraints of the selected purpose
   entry, including the selected profile and presentation-assurance
   value if any.  The verifier MUST NOT accept a presentation merely
   because it produces a valid continuity_handle for the same continuity
   scope.

   A verifier output has one of the following top-level states:

   valid: The artifact and all required presentation proofs are valid,
   and the verifier has produced a continuity_handle for the selected
   continuity scope.

   invalid: The artifact or presentation proof is malformed, expired,
   revoked, bound to a different realm, attestation audience, or
   purpose, bound to a challenge nonce the verifier did not issue or no
   longer accepts, fails to produce a required continuity_handle or
   requested or asserted presentation-assurance evidence, reuses an
   applicable replay key, or otherwise fails profile validation.

   unverifiable: The verifier lacks fresh enough metadata, does not
   support the profile, does not trust the realm, lacks verification
   material, cannot access required authoritative challenge or replay
   state, or otherwise cannot complete validation.

   This document does not require an origin to fail a request when a
   human-continuity presentation is missing, invalid, or unverifiable.
   Origin policy is out of scope.

   A successful verification result for a conforming profile MUST
   include at least:

   *  state;

   *  profile;

   *  realm;

   *  attestation_audience;

   *  purpose; and

   *  continuity_handle.

   When a verifier accepts a presentation for which presentation-
   assurance was requested or asserted, the successful verification
   result MUST include the verified presentation-assurance value.  The
   result MAY include additional profile-defined assurance details, such
   as method, freshness time, or assurance level, provided those details
   do not violate the selected profile's privacy properties.

   An example of one possible JSON representation:

   {
     "state": "valid",
     "profile": "com.example.unique-human.v1",
     "realm": "https://realm.example",
     "policy_identifier": "signup",
     "attestation_audience": "https://service.example",
     "purpose": "free_tier_signup",
     "continuity_handle": "opaque-scope-local-value",
     "presentation_assurance": "subject-present"
   }

   A successful verification MAY include additional profile-defined
   attributes.

   A verifier MUST NOT use a valid/invalid attestation result alone to
   enforce policy decisions that depend on attributing presentations to
   the same human.  For those decisions, it MUST use the profile-defined
   continuity_handle, scoped by realm, attestation audience, and
   purpose.

   A continuity_handle is not an authenticator.  A verifier MUST NOT use
   a continuity_handle, or equality with a previously stored
   continuity_handle value or derivative, as the sole basis for
   authenticating a request, granting account access, or proving control
   of an account.  A verifier MAY use a continuity_handle as an input to
   origin policy after applying the origin's native authentication,
   authorization, or account recovery rules.

   A verifier output MAY include profile-defined or implementation-
   defined diagnostic information describing why a presentation was
   invalid or unverifiable.  Where an origin surfaces such a reason in
   an HTTP response, one possible representation is Problem Details
   [RFC9457].

14.  Caching and Intermediaries

   When human continuity affects whether a request is served, throttled,
   challenged, or rejected, the component that makes that decision MUST
   have access to the presentation or to a verifier-derived
   classification.  When shared caches or CDNs are used, origins MUST
   ensure that cached responses cannot bypass the intended human-
   continuity policy under HTTP caching semantics [RFC9111].

   If the selected representation depends on the raw Human-Continuity
   field value, the origin MUST send:

   Vary: Human-Continuity

   Vary addresses cache correctness only.  It keys cache entries on the
   raw field value and cannot capture Signature-Input, Signature, or
   verifier validity state; it stores presented artifact values as
   shared cache keys and fragments cache entries when presentations
   contain dynamic signature parameters.  Origins MUST NOT use Vary:
   Human-Continuity as a validity gate.

   When request handling, the selected representation, the status code,
   or challenge behavior depends on whether a presentation is present or
   valid, the origin SHOULD verify the presentation at or before the
   shared cache and key cached responses on the verifier classification,
   or mark the affected responses private or no-store.  Origins MUST
   ensure, through response directives or cache configuration, that a
   cached response is not reused for a request with a different human-
   continuity state, unless bypassing origin-side human-continuity
   policy is acceptable for that response.

   Responses containing Human-Continuity-Challenge SHOULD use Cache-
   Control: no-store.  A challenge stored by a shared cache can deliver
   the same challenge nonce to many clients.

15.  Browser and CORS Considerations

   Browser JavaScript clients require origins to expose response fields
   and allow request fields through CORS.

   Actual resource responses that carry Human-Continuity-Challenge need
   to expose that response field to browser script:

   Access-Control-Expose-Headers: Human-Continuity-Challenge

   CORS preflight responses need to allow the actual request's method
   and fields:

   NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792

   Access-Control-Allow-Methods: GET, POST
   Access-Control-Allow-Headers: Human-Continuity, Signature-Input, \
     Signature, Content-Digest

   Human-Continuity-Challenge can appear on successful responses as well
   as error responses.  Browser clients that use this protocol need to
   read it on any response for which CORS exposure permits access.

   Exposing Human-Continuity-Challenge to browser script exposes any
   challenge nonce to that script context.  Challenge nonces are replay
   protection inputs, and implementations MUST NOT rely on their
   confidentiality for security.  However, browser clients SHOULD
   perform artifact selection, use of holder keys, and presentation
   signing in trusted code paths and SHOULD avoid exposing those
   capabilities to untrusted third-party scripts, injected scripts, or
   broadly authorized cross-origin callers.  XSS or script compromise in
   a context that can access holder keys or presentation APIs enables
   unauthorized credential use in this protocol.

   This document does not use the Sec- prefix for any field.  The
   protocol does not rely on browser-reserved field names: clients
   generate Human-Continuity according to policy, and origins expose
   Human-Continuity-Challenge through ordinary HTTP and CORS controls.

   Because these fields are ordinary extension-defined HTTP fields,
   generic user agents, intermediaries, logging systems, and tracing
   systems will not treat them as sensitive by default.

16.  Status Codes and Error Responses

   An origin MUST NOT use 401 solely to request human continuity under
   this protocol.  A 401 response is reserved for HTTP authentication
   challenges and requires WWW-Authenticate [RFC9110].

   A proxy MUST NOT use 407 for this mechanism.  A 407 response is
   reserved for proxy authentication and requires Proxy-Authenticate
   [RFC9110].

   Origins MAY use 403, 409, 422, 429, or another status code
   appropriate to origin policy when issuing a Human-Continuity-
   Challenge.  Problem Details [RFC9457] can be used to describe the
   origin policy error, but is not required by this document.

   A Human-Continuity-Challenge received on a 3xx response applies to
   the request that generated that response, not to the redirect target.
   A client that follows a redirect MUST NOT send the Human-Continuity,
   Signature-Input, or Signature field values generated for the original
   target URI on the redirected request.  The client MUST perform policy
   selection, effective value determination, artifact selection, and
   signing for the redirect target as a new request under the redirect
   target's canonical HTTPS origin and policy metadata.

17.  Header Size and Artifact Size

   This protocol carries artifacts in HTTP fields.  Many origins,
   frameworks, CDNs, gateways, and proxies enforce limits on request
   header size.  Large artifacts can trigger 431 Request Header Fields
   Too Large or intermediary-specific failures.

   max_artifact_size_issued refers to the serialized artifact value as
   carried in the Human-Continuity field, after any base64, base64url,
   or Structured Field Byte Sequence encoding has been applied.

   The value excludes the HTTP field name and unrelated field
   parameters, but includes any delimiters required by the artifact's
   Structured Field item encoding.

   This limit does not guarantee that every intermediary on the request
   path will accept the complete HTTP field section.  Origins SHOULD
   choose conservative values when deployed behind intermediaries with
   smaller header limits.

   Profiles intended for broad HTTP deployment SHOULD keep artifacts
   small enough to fit within commonly deployed origin, framework, and
   intermediary field section limits.  A profile whose proof objects are
   expected to exceed those limits SHOULD define a compact presentation
   form, such as a profile-defined exchange token, compact envelope,
   detached proof reference, or presentation endpoint, rather than
   requiring raw proof objects to be carried directly in the Human-
   Continuity field.

   A profile that uses a compact envelope, reference artifact, exchange
   token, or presentation endpoint MUST define how that presentation
   form is cryptographically or operationally bound to the realm,
   attestation audience, and purpose, how it satisfies the profile's
   holder binding requirements and replay model, and how it produces the
   verifier output required by this specification.

18.  Privacy Considerations

   A continuity_handle is intentionally linkable within its continuity
   scope.  This scoped linkability lets origins attribute repeated
   participation to the same human for purposes authorized by policy
   metadata.  The privacy goal of this specification is unlinkability
   across different continuity scopes.

   Cross-scope unlinkability is a property of the selected profile and
   realm operator behavior, not of the HTTP transport defined by this
   document.  The core protocol cannot prevent realm operators from
   colluding, sharing handle derivation material, or intentionally
   issuing correlatable artifacts.  A profile that claims unlinkability
   across continuity scopes MUST state its realm operator non-collusion,
   key separation, and compromise assumptions.

   Continuity handles are not intended to reveal a user's real-world
   identity or account identity.  A conforming profile MUST make
   continuity_handle values infeasible to reverse, enumerate, or
   correlate outside their continuity scope.  However, a
   continuity_handle can still single out the same human within a scope
   and may be personal data or a regulated identifier for some origins.
   Verifiers SHOULD define retention, deletion, and access control
   policies for stored continuity_handle values and verifier-local
   derivatives.

   Profiles MUST NOT expose a global human identifier.  Origins SHOULD
   request or accept human-continuity presentations only for the
   narrowest purpose that satisfies their declared policy.

   Conforming profiles MUST NOT produce correlatable continuity_handle
   values for different continuity scopes under their stated security
   and privacy assumptions.  Verifiers MUST NOT compare
   continuity_handle values across different continuity scopes.

   The purpose value is privacy-sensitive because it defines the
   verifier's linkability set.  Audience alone is often too coarse: a
   signup, comment, promotion claim, support request, API quota, and
   agent delegation can require different continuity_handle values for
   the same verifier.  Verifiers SHOULD use separate purpose values for
   separate business contexts unless origin policy deliberately requires
   grouping them.

   Purpose templates are privacy-sensitive because they authorize many
   concrete linkability scopes.  Concrete purposes authorized by a
   purpose template SHOULD be tied to stable origin policy units and
   SHOULD NOT encode per-client or per-request tracking material.

   Origins SHOULD provide user awareness appropriate to the breadth,
   lifetime, and sensitivity of the continuity scope.  Broader scopes,
   longer-lived continuity_handle values, and recovery or device
   continuity mechanisms can require stronger user-facing controls.
   This document does not define the user interaction model.

   A profile might reveal information to the realm operator during
   issuance, such as requested attestation audience, purpose, profile,
   challenge nonce, holder key thumbprint, issuance time, or user
   consent state.  A profile might reveal information to the realm
   operator during redemption, if it requires online redemption.  Each
   profile MUST document these realm visibility properties
   (Section 10.4).

   The discovery fetches defined by this protocol are observable before
   any presentation.  A policy metadata fetch tells the contacted origin
   that the client is evaluating human continuity for that origin, but
   does not by itself disclose activity at other origins.  An on-demand
   realm metadata fetch (Section 9) tells the realm operator the
   client's IP address and fetch timing, even for profiles that
   otherwise reveal nothing to the realm operator at presentation time.
   Cached or configured metadata (Section 8.5), or profile-defined realm
   metadata retrieval, can decouple that observation from presentation
   intent.  Profiles and origins that rely on realm operator non-
   observation at presentation time SHOULD account for this channel.

   A scoped continuity_handle does not make the whole HTTP request
   unlinkable outside the profile's cryptographic design.  Origins can
   still observe IP address, cookies, native authorization, TLS
   properties, client behavior, user-agent information, application
   identifiers, and timing.

   Clients and origins SHOULD treat artifacts, continuity_handle values,
   and signature material as sensitive.  They can reveal linkability
   information or permit abuse if leaked, depending on profile
   semantics.

   Verifiers SHOULD avoid logging raw continuity_handle values.  When
   storing continuity_handle values persistently, verifiers SHOULD use a
   verifier-local protected derivative, such as a keyed hash over the
   continuity scope and continuity_handle, when operationally feasible.

18.1.  Privacy Threats

   This section relates the protocol to the privacy threats in Section 5
   of [RFC6973], concentrating on those a human-continuity mechanism
   raises most directly.  In each, the continuity scope (Section 6.4) is
   the boundary that contains the threat, and the requirements stated
   earlier in this section are the floors that constrain it.  The
   threats of stored data compromise and disclosure described in
   [RFC6973] apply to artifacts, signature material, and stored
   continuity_handle values as sensitive data and are treated under
   Section 20.

   Surveillance (Section 5.1.1 of [RFC6973]): A realm operator can
   observe issuance, and online redemption where a profile requires it;
   a verifier observes the presentations made to it.  A verifier learns
   a continuity_handle only within the continuity scopes it requests,
   and what a realm operator learns is made auditable by the per-profile
   realm visibility documentation required above.  The protocol does
   not, however, prevent a single realm operator from observing issuance
   across the scopes it serves, nor realm operators from colluding, as
   noted above; nor does it conceal the request metadata any HTTP server
   already sees, such as IP address, cookies, and TLS properties.

   Correlation (Section 5.2.1 of [RFC6973]): A continuity_handle is
   deliberately correlatable within one continuity scope; that scoped
   linkability is the mechanism's function.  Correlation across scopes
   is the threat this specification is built to prevent, through
   profiles that do not produce correlatable handles for different
   scopes and verifiers that do not compare handles across scopes.
   Because a scope is (effective realm, effective attestation audience,
   purpose), purpose granularity is the principal correlation control: a
   broad or shared purpose enlarges the set within which the same human
   is detected, which is why origins are directed to the narrowest
   purpose and to distinct purposes for distinct contexts.  Linkability
   that does not derive from the handle, such as a shared IP address or
   account, lies outside the protocol's cryptographic guarantees.

   Identification (Section 5.2.2 of [RFC6973]): A continuity_handle is a
   scope-local pseudonym.  Profiles expose no global human identifier,
   and handles are infeasible to reverse or enumerate outside their
   scope, so the protocol does not by itself tie a handle to a real-
   world or account identity.  Within a scope a handle still singles out
   the same human and can be personal data; an origin that joins it to
   identifying data it already holds performs that identification, which
   the retention, deletion, and access control guidance above is meant
   to constrain.

   Secondary use (Section 5.2.3 of [RFC6973]): Purpose binds each
   artifact and continuity_handle to the context it was authorized for,
   and policy metadata makes that context visible and auditable.
   Linking the same human under a different purpose is a different
   continuity scope, which conforming profiles keep uncorrelatable and
   verifiers do not bridge; carrying stable business contexts rather
   than tracking material in purpose values keeps the use that is
   authorized aligned with the use that occurs.

18.2.  Exclusion, Accessibility, and Coercion

   Conditioning access to a service on a human-continuity presentation
   excludes humans who cannot present.  A human may have no access to
   any realm the origin's policy authorizes, they may lack a required
   device, or be unable to complete the issuance ceremony.  Client
   participation is voluntary, and this document does not guarantee that
   requests backed by human continuity receive different service
   treatment; making a presentation a precondition for service is an
   origin policy choice that the protocol neither requires nor defines.

   Origins SHOULD offer an alternative path to the service for humans
   who cannot or choose not to present, consistent with the guidance to
   request Human-Continuity only where human continuity is required
   (Section 1.2).  Where no alternative is offered, the origin SHOULD
   make the requirement, and the realms it accepts, transparent so that
   an affected human can understand the basis for exclusion.
   Conditioning service on presentation can also pressure a human into
   an issuance ceremony, and the enrollment or identification it
   entails, that they would otherwise decline; the more sensitive the
   ceremony, such as one involving biometric enrollment, the stronger
   this concern.

   Because the holder that presents an artifact can be a client or agent
   acting for a human, the HTTP presentation mechanism does not assume
   direct human interaction and is compatible with assistive technology
   and delegated agents.  Exclusion risk therefore concentrates in
   issuance and in any subject participation a profile's presentation-
   assurance requires (Section 7.5); profiles document the accessibility
   constraints of obtaining an artifact (Section 10), so an origin can
   assess which humans the operator of an authorized realm can reach.

19.  Implementation Status

   RFC Editor: Please remove this section and the reference to [RFC7942]
   before publication.

   This section records the implementation status of this specification
   in accordance with [RFC7942].  It is intended to inform IETF review
   and working group discussion.  The information has not been
   independently verified, and listing or omitting an implementation
   does not imply IETF endorsement.

   As of this -00 version, no complete end-to-end implementation of this
   HTTP extension or interoperability report for this specification is
   known to the editor.  Existing unique-human systems may inform future
   companion profiles, but this document defines no initial profile and
   does not report any deployment as implementing this specification end
   to end.

   The example artifacts in this document are implementation aids and
   are not reported as running implementations.

20.  Security Considerations

   Security depends on clients and verifiers enforcing metadata policy,
   choosing narrow continuity scopes, preventing disclosure of artifacts
   and signature material, and preventing unauthorized use of holder
   keys.

   Artifact and signature disclosure: Human-Continuity fields,
   Signature-Input, Signature, and derived verifier output can be
   sensitive even when they are not authentication credentials.
   Ordinary HTTP infrastructure may log, trace, sample, or inspect
   extension-defined fields by default.  Origins SHOULD configure
   redaction or use profiles whose artifacts and signatures are safe
   under the expected exposure.

   Holder key compromise: If a holder key and its bound artifact are
   compromised, an attacker can create holder-bound presentations only
   while the verifier accepts the artifact's challenge nonce and the
   artifact remains valid.  Profiles SHOULD define holder key rotation
   and how compromise invalidates keys, artifacts, or outstanding
   challenges.

   Request binding: Holder signatures cover @method, @target-uri, and
   Human-Continuity.  This specification defines no equivalent binding
   for bearer presentations.

   Authenticated principals: The challenge context and mandatory
   signature coverage do not bind a presentation to Authorization, a
   session, or an application principal.  Before linking a
   continuity_handle to a principal, an origin SHOULD either record that
   principal with the challenge nonce and require the same principal on
   presentation, or require signature coverage of the request fields
   used for authentication (Section 13).  Single-use acceptance limits
   replay but does not provide principal binding (Section 11.3).

   State exhaustion: Required replay and mutable nonce state MUST remain
   available through its retention deadline.  Capacity, partition, or
   backend failures MUST fail closed as unverifiable.  Verifiers SHOULD
   bound lifetimes, rate-limit issuance and verification, and provision
   replay storage for their acceptance modes.

   Origin, method, and purpose confusion: Clients MUST verify that
   challenges and presentations are authorized by policy metadata for
   the request (Section 8.4), including any presentation-assurance
   value.  Clients MUST NOT infer cross-origin delegation, realm
   selection, attestation audience selection, purpose authorization,
   profile support, or presentation-assurance support from inline
   fields.

   Policy mapping confusion: The effective policy identifier is derived
   from the request method, request URI, and policy metadata.  Clients
   and verifiers MUST implement the same matching algorithm.  Origins
   using reverse proxies, request rewriting, routing normalization, or
   framework-level path normalization MUST ensure that the verifier
   computes the effective policy identifier from the externally visible
   request method and URI used by clients.

   Selector overlap: Path patterns can create policy overlap.  This
   specification resolves overlap by first checking for an exact path
   match under the request method.  If no exact path match exists, it
   considers subtree patterns that match both the request path and
   request method, then chooses the most specific matching subtree
   pattern, which is unique because selector member names are unique
   within one method.  A selector for one method does not shadow a less-
   specific selector for another method.  Clients and verifiers MUST NOT
   fall back to a less-specific policy after selecting a policy that
   does not authorize the request's concrete purpose, profile, effective
   realm, or presentation-assurance value.

   Path normalization: Clients and verifiers MUST NOT apply percent-
   decoding equivalence, dot-segment normalization, path case folding,
   Unicode normalization, framework route matching, filesystem path
   normalization, or query string matching when selecting a policy
   identifier.  A request path containing dot-segments MUST NOT match a
   policy selector or default policy selector under this protocol.
   Clients and verifiers MUST NOT accept Human-Continuity-Challenge or
   Human-Continuity for such a request unless a future extension defines
   safe normalization semantics.  Origins using policy_selectors or
   default_policy_selectors SHOULD reject requests whose externally
   visible path contains dot-segments.

   Default policy selectors: Default policy selectors are broad policy
   selectors.  Origins SHOULD prefer explicit policy selectors.  A
   default policy selector can cause requests not matched by a policy
   selector for the request method to authorize purposes or profiles
   that were intended only for a narrower part of the origin.  An origin
   can exclude a path and method from a broader default policy selector
   or less-specific subtree pattern by mapping it to a policy whose
   purposes object is empty; such a policy authorizes nothing and fails
   closed.

   Because matching is exact, path forms that differ only by a trailing
   slash, such as "/x" and "/x/", are distinct paths under [RFC3986] and
   can select different policy identifiers.  Method forms that differ by
   case are also distinct.  A request that has no matching policy
   selector for its method uses default_policy_selectors, if any, rather
   than an implicit origin-level fallback.  Origins applying request-
   scoped policy SHOULD cover every protected path in all served forms,
   by registering each form or by using valid subtree patterns.  Origins
   trying to cover all paths for a method SHOULD use
   default_policy_selectors for that method, and SHOULD list every
   method for which that policy is intended.

   Header injection and stripping: Intermediaries or compromised
   components might add, remove, or modify human-continuity fields.
   Inline fields do not select the effective policy identifier,
   effective realm, or effective attestation audience, and they do not
   broaden authorized purposes, profile choices, or presentation-
   assurance values authorized by policy metadata.  Holder-bound
   presentations cover Human-Continuity in the HTTP Message Signature
   (Section 11.2).

   Signature coverage: HTTP Message Signatures protect only covered
   components.  If a component is not covered, a verifier MUST NOT claim
   that the presentation is bound to that component.

   Request content: If Content-Digest is present on a holder-bound
   request, the signature input MUST cover the content-digest component.
   If request content matters to the attestation decision, the
   applicable profile SHOULD require Content-Digest coverage.

   Metadata freshness: Stale metadata can cause clients or verifiers to
   use retired realms, verification material, trust anchors, profiles,
   or policies.  Profiles and origins SHOULD define metadata freshness
   and refresh behavior.  Origins SHOULD send explicit freshness
   directives, such as Cache-Control with max-age, on policy metadata
   responses, on the 404 or 410 responses that establish policy absence,
   and on realm metadata responses.  Clients SHOULD NOT apply heuristic
   caching to these documents; absent explicit freshness directives, a
   client SHOULD revalidate before relying on them.

   Realm operator trust material compromise and rotation: Compromise of
   realm operator trust material can allow forged artifacts or false
   continuity_handle values.  This risk applies to every form of
   verification material and trust anchor a profile uses, including
   keys, circuits, contracts, ledger state, accumulator roots, and
   transparency logs.  The lifecycle requirements for verification
   material in Section 10, together with profile-defined revocation or
   invalidation behavior where applicable, bound the exposure window.

   Browser holder keys: Non-extractable browser key material can reduce
   key export risk, but it does not prevent use of the key by
   compromised same-origin script.  In browser clients, XSS, malicious
   dependencies, or other same-origin script compromise can therefore
   permit unauthorized holder key use even when the private key is not
   extractable.

   Logging and transcripts: Implementations used by agents, model-facing
   tools, or developer environments SHOULD attach artifacts in trusted
   transport code and redact the Human-Continuity, Signature-Input, and
   Signature fields, verifier outputs containing continuity_handle
   values, and related holder key material from logs and transcripts by
   default.

   Header size denial of service: Very large artifacts can consume
   parser memory or trigger header processing failures.  Origins SHOULD
   enforce size limits before expensive verification.

21.  IANA Considerations

21.1.  HTTP Field Name Registrations

   IANA is requested to register the following fields in the "Hypertext
   Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Field Name Registry" defined by [RFC9110].
   The "Structured Type" column is defined by [RFC9651].

    +============================+===========+============+===========+
    | Field Name                 | Status    | Structured | Reference |
    |                            |           | Type       |           |
    +============================+===========+============+===========+
    | Human-Continuity-Challenge | permanent | List       | This      |
    |                            |           |            | document  |
    +----------------------------+-----------+------------+-----------+
    | Human-Continuity           | permanent | Item       | This      |
    |                            |           |            | document  |
    +----------------------------+-----------+------------+-----------+

                                  Table 1

21.2.  Well-Known URI Registrations

   IANA is requested to register the following well-known URIs in the
   "Well-Known URIs" registry [RFC8615].

   This document uses separate well-known URI suffixes for policy
   metadata and realm metadata because the policy authority and the
   realm operator are not necessarily the same party.  Policy metadata
   is authoritative for default policy selectors, policy selectors,
   accepted purposes, accepted profiles, presentation-assurance values,
   and effective realms at the origin and its policies.  Realm metadata
   is authoritative for the realm operator's capabilities and
   verification material.  If the same origin acts as both policy
   authority and realm operator, it MAY serve both metadata documents
   from that origin.

   +=============+============+===============+=========+=============+
   | URI Suffix  | Change     | Specification |Status   | Related     |
   |             | Controller | Document      |         | Information |
   +=============+============+===============+=========+=============+
   | human-      | IETF       | This document |permanent| Policy      |
   | continuity  |            |               |         | metadata    |
   |             |            |               |         | for Human   |
   |             |            |               |         | Continuity  |
   |             |            |               |         | for HTTP    |
   +-------------+------------+---------------+---------+-------------+
   | human-      | IETF       | This document |permanent| Realm       |
   | continuity- |            |               |         | metadata    |
   | realm       |            |               |         | for Human   |
   |             |            |               |         | Continuity  |
   |             |            |               |         | for HTTP    |
   +-------------+------------+---------------+---------+-------------+

                                 Table 2

21.3.  Human-Continuity Presentation Assurance Value Registry

   IANA is requested to create the Human-Continuity Presentation
   Assurance Value registry.

   Registered values use the presentation-assurance value syntax defined
   in Section 7.5 and SHOULD be short enough for practical use in HTTP
   fields.

   Registration policy: Expert Review [RFC8126].

   The designated experts are instructed to approve a registration when
   the value's intent is clearly described and distinct from existing
   entries, and the value is intended for use across more than one
   profile; values specific to a single profile use author-controlled
   names as described in Section 7.5 and are not registered.  The
   experts MAY require a stable, publicly available definition of the
   value's general intent.  The experts assess only distinctness and
   clarity of intent: registration does not constitute endorsement of
   any verification mechanism and does not establish cross-profile
   equivalence, and the equivalence rules in Section 7.5 apply to
   registered and unregistered values alike.  The registry is expected
   to grow slowly.

   Registration requests MUST include:

   *  presentation-assurance value;

   *  description;

   *  specification reference; and

   *  change controller.

   The registry records shared presentation-assurance labels and their
   general intent only.  The definitions in Section 7.5 are
   authoritative for the values registered by this document, and how a
   value is satisfied for a given profile is defined by that profile as
   required by Section 7.5.  Registration status is not consulted by
   clients or verifiers at runtime.

   Initial values:

    +=================+=====================+============+===========+
    | Value           | Description         | Change     | Reference |
    |                 |                     | Controller |           |
    +=================+=====================+============+===========+
    | human-approved  | A human approved    | IETF       | This      |
    |                 | the presentation,   |            | document  |
    |                 | either individually |            |           |
    |                 | or through standing |            |           |
    |                 | consent.            |            |           |
    +-----------------+---------------------+------------+-----------+
    | human-verified  | A human completed a | IETF       | This      |
    |                 | user verification   |            | document  |
    |                 | interaction when    |            |           |
    |                 | the evidence was    |            |           |
    |                 | generated.          |            |           |
    +-----------------+---------------------+------------+-----------+
    | subject-present | The human subject   | IETF       | This      |
    |                 | claimed as unique   |            | document  |
    |                 | participated when   |            |           |
    |                 | the evidence was    |            |           |
    |                 | generated.          |            |           |
    +-----------------+---------------------+------------+-----------+

                                 Table 3

22.  Examples

22.1.  Challenge Reuse for a Request-Scoped Policy

   For a GET request to:

   https://service.example/api/quota

   The origin challenges on the response to the first request:

   NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792

   HTTP/1.1 429 Too Many Requests
   Content-Type: application/problem+json
   Cache-Control: no-store
   Human-Continuity-Challenge: "com.example.unique-human.v1"; \
     purpose="api_quota_group"; \
     challenge=:u5ytp8jYXgfXmZKNrsllkJt2MH8sWQHIi5UJYyI+VFc=:

   The client retries with a presentation bound to the challenge nonce:

   NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792

   GET /api/quota HTTP/1.1
   Host: service.example
   Human-Continuity: "com.example.unique-human.v1"; \
     artifact=:ZXhhbXBsZS1hcnRpZmFjdA==:; \
     purpose="api_quota_group"

   With the Policy Metadata example below, GET /api/quota selects the
   following effective policy identifier:

   quota

   The effective attestation audience is the canonical HTTPS origin:

   https://service.example

   The purpose is:

   api_quota_group

   The effective realm is:

   https://realm.example

   The continuity scope is:

   (https://realm.example, https://service.example, api_quota_group)

   The policy is selected from the GET /api/quota request context, while
   the artifact is bound to the canonical HTTPS origin as its
   attestation audience.  This example assumes that the selected profile
   permits reuse of the same presentation material.  Under window
   acceptance, the client resends it until the origin challenges again
   (Section 11.3).

22.2.  Holder-Bound Presentation

   For a POST request to:

   https://service.example/accounts/free-tier

   The origin can return:

   NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792

   HTTP/1.1 409 Conflict
   Content-Type: application/problem+json
   Cache-Control: no-store
   Human-Continuity-Challenge: "com.example.unique-human.v1"; \
     purpose="free_tier_signup"; \
     challenge=:nI+HKqYqT858msAv9vvZDqe/x5JOABxh0uO7aMJtM0Y=:; \
     presentation-assurance="subject-present"

   The origin sends this challenge before creating the account,
   allocating the free tier, or applying any other signup effect.  The
   client then checks policy metadata before treating the purpose,
   profile, and presentation-assurance value as authorized.  With the
   Policy Metadata example below, POST /accounts/free-tier selects the
   signup policy, which authorizes the challenge.  The client can then
   repeat the not-yet-applied signup operation with a holder-bound
   presentation:

   NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792

   POST /accounts/free-tier HTTP/1.1
   Host: service.example
   Authorization: Bearer account-native-token
   Content-Type: application/json
   Content-Digest: sha-256=:07X+4wcYcvreux20N5iVZsZqskk\
     ynpoTaTbHd8Oufgc=:
   Human-Continuity: "com.example.unique-human.v1"; \
     artifact=:ZXhhbXBsZS1hcnRpZmFjdA==:; \
     purpose="free_tier_signup"; \
     presentation-assurance="subject-present"
   Signature-Input: hu=("@method" "@target-uri" \
     "human-continuity";sf "content-digest");created=1778480000;\
     expires=1778480060;\
     keyid="urn:ietf:params:oauth:jwk-thumbprint:sha-256:1IG2tMH7J2wbJZ\
     nOf8LJzQitKf7LMvoAElsuDMVM54Y";alg="ed25519";tag="human-continuity"
   Signature: hu=:DohOIdStKJj731Yk4BdjDWOxctbp7v00WLXYWrIc8Ryi/WsDT+7Ri\
     TXTU+U6Fa6aOUFYF83ZTHBSMX1N0Q4MCQ==:

   The challenge above carried a challenge nonce.  The challenge nonce
   evidence required by Section 11.3 is carried inside the artifact
   according to the fictional profile; it does not appear as a
   Signature-Input parameter.

22.3.  Policy Metadata

   <CODE BEGINS>
   {
     "origin": "https://service.example",
     "default_policy_selectors": {
       "GET": "site",
       "HEAD": "site"
     },
     "policy_selectors": {
       "GET": {
         "/api/quota": "quota"
       },
       "HEAD": {
         "/api/quota": "quota"
       },
       "POST": {
         "/accounts/free-tier": "signup"
       }
     },
     "policies": {
       "site": {
         "purposes": {
           "site_rate_limit": {
             "realm": "https://realm.example",
             "profiles": {
               "com.example.unique-human.v1": {}
             }
           }
         }
       },
       "signup": {
         "purposes": {
           "free_tier_signup": {
             "realm": "https://realm.example",
             "profiles": {
               "com.example.unique-human.v1": {
                 "presentation_assurances": ["subject-present"]
               }
             }
           }
         }
       },
       "quota": {
         "purposes": {
           "api_quota_group": {
             "realm": "https://realm.example",
             "profiles": {
               "com.example.unique-human.v1": {}
             }
           }
         }
       }
     }
   }
   <CODE ENDS>

22.4.  Realm Metadata

   In this non-normative example, verification_key_uri and
   revocation_status_uri are members defined by the example profile, not
   by this document.  The members defined by this document are realm and
   profiles, and within each realm profile entry, issuance_endpoint and
   max_artifact_size_issued.

   {
     "realm": "https://realm.example",
     "profiles": {
       "com.example.unique-human.v1": {
         "issuance_endpoint": "https://realm.example/issue",
         "verification_key_uri": "https://realm.example/keys.json",
         "revocation_status_uri": "https://realm.example/status",
         "max_artifact_size_issued": 3072
       }
     }
   }

22.5.  Realm Metadata Without JWKs

   This non-normative example shows realm metadata for two profiles
   whose verification material is not a JWK Set. The members other than
   issuance_endpoint and max_artifact_size_issued are profile-defined
   and illustrative only.

   {
     "realm": "https://realm.example",
     "profiles": {
       "org.example.zk-human.v1": {
         "issuance_endpoint": "https://realm.example/issue-zk",
         "verification_key_uri": "https://realm.example/vk.json",
         "circuit_id": "unique-human-v1",
         "max_artifact_size_issued": 8192
       },
       "org.example.onchain-human.v1": {
         "chain_id": "eip155:999999999",
         "verifier_contract":
           "0x1111111111111111111111111111111111111111",
         "verification_method": "verify",
         "root_source": "profile-defined",
         "max_artifact_size_issued": 4096
       }
     }
   }

22.6.  Using Verifier Output in Origin Policy

   A successful verification result is shown in the example in
   Section 13.

   For one-human-one-account enforcement, an origin can apply a
   uniqueness constraint over the verifier-visible scope:

   UNIQUE (
     realm,
     attestation_audience,
     purpose,
     stored_continuity_handle
   )

   stored_continuity_handle is policy state, not an authenticator.  It
   can be the raw continuity_handle or, preferably for persistent
   storage, a verifier-local protected derivative.  Account access still
   depends on the origin's native authentication and authorization
   mechanisms.

22.7.  Agent Delegation Binding

   For agent delegation, a verifier can use a separate purpose and bind
   agent keys to the resulting continuity_handle:

   purpose = agent_delegation

   human_agent_delegations (
     realm,
     attestation_audience,
     purpose,
     stored_continuity_handle,
     agent_key_thumbprint,
     account_id,
     expires_at
   )

23.  References

23.1.  Normative References

   [BCP14]    Best Current Practice 14,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp14>.
              At the time of writing, this BCP comprises the following:

              Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119>.

              Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8174>.

   [RFC3986]  Berners-Lee, T., Fielding, R., and L. Masinter, "Uniform
              Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax", STD 66,
              RFC 3986, DOI 10.17487/RFC3986, January 2005,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3986>.

   [RFC6454]  Barth, A., "The Web Origin Concept", RFC 6454,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC6454, December 2011,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6454>.

   [RFC7638]  Jones, M. and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web Key (JWK)
              Thumbprint", RFC 7638, DOI 10.17487/RFC7638, September
              2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7638>.

   [RFC8126]  Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten, "Guidelines for
              Writing an IANA Considerations Section in RFCs", BCP 26,
              RFC 8126, DOI 10.17487/RFC8126, June 2017,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8126>.

   [RFC8259]  Bray, T., Ed., "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data
              Interchange Format", STD 90, RFC 8259,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8259, December 2017,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8259>.

   [RFC8615]  Nottingham, M., "Well-Known Uniform Resource Identifiers
              (URIs)", RFC 8615, DOI 10.17487/RFC8615, May 2019,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8615>.

   [RFC9110]  Fielding, R., Ed., Nottingham, M., Ed., and J. Reschke,
              Ed., "HTTP Semantics", STD 97, RFC 9110,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9110, June 2022,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110>.

   [RFC9111]  Fielding, R., Ed., Nottingham, M., Ed., and J. Reschke,
              Ed., "HTTP Caching", STD 98, RFC 9111,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9111, June 2022,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9111>.

   [RFC9421]  Backman, A., Ed., Richer, J., Ed., and M. Sporny, "HTTP
              Message Signatures", RFC 9421, DOI 10.17487/RFC9421,
              February 2024, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9421>.

   [RFC9530]  Polli, R. and L. Pardue, "Digest Fields", RFC 9530,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9530, February 2024,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9530>.

   [RFC9651]  Nottingham, M. and P. Kamp, "Structured Field Values for
              HTTP", RFC 9651, DOI 10.17487/RFC9651, September 2024,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9651>.

23.2.  Informative References

   [DC-API]   W3C Federated Identity Working Group, "Digital Credentials
              API", July 2026,
              <https://www.w3.org/TR/digital-credentials/>.

   [I-D.ietf-privacypass-arc-crypto]
              Yun, C., Wood, C. A., and A. F. Faz-Hernandez, "Anonymous
              Rate-Limited Credentials Cryptography", Work in Progress,
              Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-privacypass-arc-crypto-01, 2
              March 2026, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-
              ietf-privacypass-arc-crypto-01>.

   [I-D.irtf-cfrg-bbs-per-verifier-linkability]
              Kalos, V. and G. M. Bernstein, "BBS per Verifier
              Linkability", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-
              irtf-cfrg-bbs-per-verifier-linkability-03, 29 June 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-irtf-cfrg-
              bbs-per-verifier-linkability-03>.

   [I-D.meunier-webbotauth-httpsig-directory]
              Meunier, T. and S. Major, "HTTP Message Signatures
              Directory", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-
              meunier-webbotauth-httpsig-directory-00, 26 June 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-meunier-
              webbotauth-httpsig-directory-00>.

   [I-D.meunier-webbotauth-httpsig-protocol]
              Meunier, T. and S. Major, "HTTP Message Signatures for
              automated traffic", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft,
              draft-meunier-webbotauth-httpsig-protocol-00, 26 June
              2026, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-
              meunier-webbotauth-httpsig-protocol-00>.

   [I-D.schlesinger-cfrg-act]
              Schlesinger, S. and J. Katz, "Anonymous Credit Tokens",
              Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-schlesinger-cfrg-
              act-01, 13 February 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-schlesinger-
              cfrg-act-01>.

   [OpenID4VP]
              OpenID Foundation, "OpenID for Verifiable Presentations
              1.0", July 2025, <https://openid.net/specs/openid-4-
              verifiable-presentations-1_0.html>.

   [RFC6973]  Cooper, A., Tschofenig, H., Aboba, B., Peterson, J.,
              Morris, J., Hansen, M., and R. Smith, "Privacy
              Considerations for Internet Protocols", RFC 6973,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC6973, July 2013,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6973>.

   [RFC7517]  Jones, M., "JSON Web Key (JWK)", RFC 7517,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC7517, May 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7517>.

   [RFC7800]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and H. Tschofenig, "Proof-of-
              Possession Key Semantics for JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)",
              RFC 7800, DOI 10.17487/RFC7800, April 2016,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7800>.

   [RFC7942]  Sheffer, Y. and A. Farrel, "Improving Awareness of Running
              Code: The Implementation Status Section", BCP 205,
              RFC 7942, DOI 10.17487/RFC7942, July 2016,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7942>.

   [RFC8792]  Watsen, K., Auerswald, E., Farrel, A., and Q. Wu,
              "Handling Long Lines in Content of Internet-Drafts and
              RFCs", RFC 8792, DOI 10.17487/RFC8792, June 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8792>.

   [RFC9278]  Jones, M. and K. Yasuda, "JWK Thumbprint URI", RFC 9278,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9278, August 2022,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9278>.

   [RFC9334]  Birkholz, H., Thaler, D., Richardson, M., Smith, N., and
              W. Pan, "Remote ATtestation procedureS (RATS)
              Architecture", RFC 9334, DOI 10.17487/RFC9334, January
              2023, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9334>.

   [RFC9457]  Nottingham, M., Wilde, E., and S. Dalal, "Problem Details
              for HTTP APIs", RFC 9457, DOI 10.17487/RFC9457, July 2023,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9457>.

   [RFC9576]  Davidson, A., Iyengar, J., and C. A. Wood, "The Privacy
              Pass Architecture", RFC 9576, DOI 10.17487/RFC9576, June
              2024, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9576>.

   [RFC9577]  Pauly, T., Valdez, S., and C. A. Wood, "The Privacy Pass
              HTTP Authentication Scheme", RFC 9577,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9577, June 2024,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9577>.

   [RFC9728]  Jones, M.B., Hunt, P., and A. Parecki, "OAuth 2.0
              Protected Resource Metadata", RFC 9728,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9728, April 2025,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9728>.

   [X401]     Proof and Circle, "x401, Version 0.2.0 (Draft)", 27 June
              2026, <https://github.com/proof/x401/
              blob/3f73cf912cd05a40bf8de3fe6c1f4bb720341336/spec.md>.

Appendix A.  Illustrative Profile Sketch

   This appendix is informative.  It is not a complete profile
   specification and is not sufficient for deployment.  It exists only
   to illustrate how a companion profile would use the HTTP framework.

   The example profile "com.example.unique-human.v1" is fictional.  It
   defines an opaque artifact that proves, according to the profile's
   verification rules, that the subject satisfies the profile's unique-
   human criteria.  The artifact is valid for one attestation audience
   and one purpose.  Verification produces a scope-local
   continuity_handle.

   Example challenge:

   NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792

   Human-Continuity-Challenge: "com.example.unique-human.v1"; \
     purpose="free_tier_signup"; \
     challenge=:9m2RXkyoGnXRLStCQSxKfj1awEL1SGQ7QPgo/opWHsY=:; \
     presentation-assurance="subject-present"

   Example presentation:

   NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792

   Human-Continuity: "com.example.unique-human.v1"; \
     artifact=:ZXhhbXBsZS1hcnRpZmFjdA==:; \
     purpose="free_tier_signup"; \
     presentation-assurance="subject-present"

   A successful verification produces the verifier output shown in
   Section 13, with state set to "valid" and a scope-local
   continuity_handle for the selected continuity scope.

   A real profile would still need to define artifact syntax, issuance,
   verification, holder binding, challenge nonce binding, supported
   presentation-assurance values, replay behavior, revocation, lifecycle
   events, privacy properties, and continuity_handle derivation.

Appendix B.  Open Issues

   RFC Editor: Please remove this section before publication.

   The following issues are intentionally left for discussion:

   1.  Whether future revisions should add path template matching or
       keep only exact and terminal subtree path patterns.

   2.  Whether purpose templates need additional privacy constraints or
       richer matching syntax beyond exact string prefixes.

   3.  Whether clients should learn the challenge acceptance mode or
       validity interval.

   4.  Clock skew defaults for browser, mobile, embedded, and agent
       deployments.

   5.  Whether future revisions should use Accept-Signature for dynamic
       covered component negotiation.

   6.  Whether one or more companion profile drafts should be published
       with this document to demonstrate interoperability across
       independent realm operator designs.

   7.  Whether future revisions should introduce attestation audiences
       other than the canonical HTTPS origin of the request, either
       same-origin audiences narrowed within an origin at issuance time,
       or delegated cross-origin audiences, and under what rules for
       realm visibility and delegation trust.

Acknowledgements

   This document is informed by prior work on HTTP Structured Fields,
   HTTP Message Signatures, well-known metadata, OAuth 2.0 Protected
   Resource Metadata, and Privacy Pass.  The editor thanks the authors
   and contributors of those specifications.

Author's Address

   Aurélien Brézun
   Tools for Humanity
   Email: aurelien.brezun@toolsforhumanity.com
